Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: [NH3+]C1(Cc2ccc(Cl)cc2)CCN(c2ncnc3[nH]ccc23)CC1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not generate any examples.
Step 1: The molecule contains a nitrogen atom with a positive charge, which suggests it could interact with ion channels or receptors that have charged binding sites. The presence of a chlorine atom and a benzene ring indicates potential for interactions with enzymes or transporters involved in drug metabolism and transport.
Step 2: The molecule also includes a tricyclic structure, which might suggest interactions with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), given that many drugs targeting these receptors have similar structures. The nitrogen-containing heterocycles (e.g., pyrrolidine) are common in ligands for various receptors.
Step 3: The presence of multiple chiral centers and the overall complexity of the molecule may indicate its ability to modulate multiple targets, including enzymes such as cytochrome P450s (CYPs) and kinases, which are represented by several genes in the provided list (CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, LCK).
Step 4: The aromatic rings and the presence of hydrophobic substituents like methyl groups and chlorine atoms suggest the molecule could interact with membrane proteins, particularly GPCRs, and possibly ion channels, which could be related to the genes ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, HRH1, and HTR1A, among others.
Step 5: Given the structural complexity and the presence of functional groups like amide and ester bonds, the molecule could potentially affect enzymes involved in signal transduction pathways, such as kinases and phosphatases, which are represented by genes like CDK2 and PTGS1.
Summary of related gene names: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CDK2, HRH1, HTR1A, PTGS1. Step 1: The molecule contains a positively charged nitrogen atom, suggesting possible interactions with ion channels or receptors that have charged binding sites. The presence of a chlorine atom and a benzene ring indicates potential for interactions with enzymes or transporters involved in drug metabolism and transport.
Step 2: The tricyclic structure of the molecule might suggest interactions with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), as many drugs targeting these receptors have similar structures. Nitrogen-containing heterocycles, like pyrrolidine, are common in ligands for various receptors.
Step 3: The molecule’s multiple chiral centers and overall complexity imply it could modulate multiple targets, including enzymes such as cytochrome P450s (CYPs) and kinases, represented by genes like CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4.
Step 4: The aromatic rings and hydrophobic substituents like methyl groups and chlorine atoms suggest the molecule could interact with membrane proteins, particularly GPCRs and possibly ion channels, which are associated with genes such as ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, HRH1, and HTR1A.
Step 5: The presence of functional
