Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: [NH3+]CC1(CC(=O)[O-])CCCCC1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given SMILES string represents a small organic molecule that contains an amine group (-NH3+), a benzene ring, and several carbon chains with various functional groups such as esters (-COOR) and carboxylate (-COO-) groups.
Step 2: This molecular structure suggests potential interactions with receptors or enzymes that have specific binding sites for similar functional groups. For example, the amine group could interact with ion channels or receptors that bind basic molecules, while the carboxylate group could interact with enzymes that utilize negatively charged substrates.
Step 3: Considering the gene list provided, the most relevant gene would be CYP2D6, which encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 family involved in drug metabolism. The presence of ester and carboxylate groups in the molecule might indicate that it could be a substrate for CYP2D6, leading to metabolic transformations.
Step 4: Another potential gene related to this molecule is HTR2A (also known as 5-HT2A receptor), which is a serotonin receptor. Given the presence of basic nitrogen atoms and aromatic rings, the molecule might exhibit partial agonist or antagonist activity towards this receptor.
Step 5: Based on the above analysis, the genes potentially related to this molecule are CYP2D6 and HTR2A. List of related genes: CYP2D6, HTR2A.
Summary of related gene names:
- CYP2D6
- HTR2A Step 1: The molecule has an amine group (-NH3+), a benzene ring, and multiple carbon chains with various functional groups like esters (-COOR) and carboxylate (-COO-) groups.
Step 2: These functional groups suggest possible interactions with proteins that have binding sites for similar structures.
Step 3: Among the listed genes, CYP2D6 is likely to be related because it metabolizes drugs containing ester and carboxylate groups.
Step 4: HTR2A (serotonin receptor) could also be relevant due to the presence of basic nitrogen and aromatic rings, which might allow the molecule to act as a ligand.
Step 5: Summary of related genes: CYP2D6, HTR2A. 
List of related gene names:
- HTR2A
Note: The other genes listed do not appear to have a direct structural relationship with the given molecule based on the provided information. Therefore, they are not included in the final summary.
