Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: [O-]c1cccc2cc3cccc([O-])c3c([O-])c12, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided SMILES string represents a molecule with two negatively charged oxygen atoms (-O-) connected through a cyclic structure. This suggests the molecule may be an anion or a salt, which could interact with ion channels or receptors that are sensitive to charged molecules.
Step 2: Analyzing the cyclic structure, it contains multiple aromatic rings (indicated by the 'c' characters), which are common in many drugs and ligands that bind to receptors or enzymes. These aromatic groups could potentially interact with proteins via hydrophobic interactions or by fitting into specific binding pockets.
Step 3: The presence of multiple benzene rings and the overall structure suggest the molecule might have a similar shape or functional group to known ligands for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) or other membrane-bound receptors. GPCRs are often involved in signal transduction pathways and are associated with several genes listed here, such as HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6.
Step 4: Given the negative charge and the cyclic structure, this molecule could also interact with ion channels, particularly those involved in calcium or sodium currents, like KCNH2. Ion channels are crucial for cellular signaling and are associated with diseases such as arrhythmias, and some of the genes linked to ion channel function include KCNH2.
Step 5: Considering the potential for interaction with both GPCRs and ion channels, the related genes could include those involved in neurotransmitter signaling and ion transport, such as HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, and KCNH2.
Summary of Related Genes: HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, KCNH2.
