Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: [O-]c1cccc2cccnc12, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide any additional information.
Step 1: The molecule represented by the SMILES string [O-]c1cccc2cccnc12 is an aromatic compound with a benzene ring containing a negative charge on the oxygen atom. This structure suggests potential interactions with ion channels or receptors that have affinity for charged ligands.
Step 2: The presence of multiple nitrogen atoms in the molecule, specifically in a six-membered ring, indicates the possibility of interacting with receptors or ion channels that have binding sites for basic or amine-containing compounds.
Step 3: Given the pattern of the molecule, it may interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) such as HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C, which are known to bind to various ligands including charged and amine-containing molecules.
Step 4: The molecule could also interact with ion channels like KCNH2, which is involved in potassium channel function and may be influenced by compounds with similar structures.
Step 5: Based on the structural features of the molecule, the related genes include: HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, KCNH2. These genes encode proteins that are likely to interact directly or indirectly with the described molecule due to their functional roles in neurotransmission and ion channel regulation. To summarize, the related genes are: HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, KCNH2.
