Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: [O-]c1ccc(-c2[n-]ncc2-c2ccc(Cl)cc2)c([O-])c1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide an explanation for why this relationship might be clinically relevant.
Step 1: The molecule contains a nitrogen atom with a negative charge (-) attached to a benzene ring, which is a common feature in many drugs that interact with receptors and transport proteins. This pattern suggests potential interactions with genes encoding membrane proteins such as receptors and transporters.
Step 2: The presence of a nitro group (NO2) and a chlorine atom (Cl) in the molecule indicates it could have specific binding preferences for certain receptors or enzymes, possibly involving genes like ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, and CYP2C9, which are involved in drug metabolism and signaling pathways.
Step 3: The molecule also includes a pyridine ring, which is known to interact with various proteins including ion channels and receptors. This structural feature may indicate potential interactions with genes such as KCNH2, which encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel.
Step 4: Given the complexity and specific functional groups present in the molecule, it is likely to interact with multiple genes involved in neurotransmission and receptor signaling, such as HTR2A, HTR2B, and CHRM1, which are associated with serotonin and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, respectively.
Step 5: Additionally, the molecule’s ability to bind to receptors and transport proteins may suggest interactions with genes like DRD2 and DRD3, which encode dopamine receptors, and CYP2D6, which plays a role in drug metabolism.
Summary of related gene names: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, ADRB2, CYP2C9, KCNH2, HTR2A, HTR2B, CHRM1, DRD2, DRD3, CYP2D6.
