Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: [O-]c1ccc(Oc2ccc3c(C(F)(F)F)cc(C(F)(F)F)nc3n2)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide any additional information.
Step 1: The molecule contains an oxygen atom with a negative charge (-), indicating it is a negatively charged oxygen-containing compound. This feature is relevant to the gene CYP2C9, which is involved in the metabolism of drugs that often contain oxygen and can be negatively charged.
Step 2: The molecule includes fluorine atoms (F) in multiple chloroalkyl groups, suggesting it may have lipophilic properties due to the presence of these halogenated substituents. This characteristic is associated with the gene CYP2D6, which metabolizes drugs with similar lipophilic profiles.
Step 3: The presence of a cyclic structure with a nitrogen atom (N) and a benzene ring indicates potential interactions with receptors or transporters that recognize aromatic compounds. This feature is linked to the gene SLC6A4, which encodes a sodium-dependent neurotransmitter transporter that recognizes aromatic amino acids.
Step 4: The molecule’s overall structure, including its aromatic rings and functional groups, suggests it could interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). This is relevant to genes like HTR2A and HTR2B, which encode serotonin receptors, and DRD2, which encodes a dopamine receptor.
Step 5: Given the molecule’s complex structure and the presence of multiple functional groups, it might also interact with enzymes involved in phase I metabolism, such as those encoded by CYP2C19. This gene is responsible for metabolizing a wide range of drugs, including some with complex structures.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2C9, CYP2D6, SLC6A4, HTR2A, HTR2B, DRD2, CYP2C19.
