Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: c1ccc(CSc2nc3ccccc3[n-]2)nc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided SMILES string represents a complex organic molecule containing a benzene ring system with multiple substitutions, including a cyclic sulfide group, a nitrogen atom with positive charge, and other functional groups such as alkyl chains and hydroxyl groups.
Step 2: Analyzing the molecular structure for potential interactions with the given genes, we observe that the presence of a positively charged nitrogen (which could be a quaternary ammonium ion or a positively charged pyridinium-like structure) and the overall aromaticity might suggest interactions with receptors that have binding sites for basic amino acids or aromatic residues.
Step 3: Considering the receptors and proteins listed, those involved in G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling pathways are particularly relevant due to their ability to bind small molecules. This includes DRD2 (Dopamine D2 receptor), HTR1A (Serotonin 5-HT1A receptor), HTR2A (Serotonin 5-HT2A receptor), HTR2B (Serotonin 5-HT2B receptor), and HTR2C (Serotonin 5-HT2C receptor).
Step 4: Additionally, the presence of hydroxyl groups and other polar functional groups might indicate potential interactions with enzymes or transporters that recognize such functional groups. Genes like CYP2D6 (Cytochrome P450 2D6) and SLC6A4 (Solute Carrier Family 6 Member 4, also known as the serotonin transporter) could be relevant here.
Step 5: Summarizing the related gene names: DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, CYP2D6, SLC6A4.
These genes are potentially relevant due to their involvement in receptor binding, neurotransmitter metabolism, and drug transport processes. The molecule’s structure suggests it could interact with these genes through binding to receptors or affecting the activity of enzymes involved in drug metabolism. However, further experimental validation would be necessary to confirm these interactions.
