Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: c1ccc(C[NH+]2CC[NH+](Cc3csc(-c4ccccc4)n3)CC2)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule contains several functional groups such as amine (-NH2), carbonyl (C=O), and aromatic rings (cyclohexane-like structures). These functional groups are common in ligands that interact with receptors or enzymes. The presence of an amide group (-NHCO-) suggests it could be a potential ligand for receptors or enzymes with amide-binding sites.
Step 2: The structure includes a quaternary ammonium salt (N+), which is known to interact with various ion channels and receptors. This feature might indicate the molecule could bind to ion channel proteins like KCNH2 (hERG potassium channel).
Step 3: The molecule also has a benzene ring with substituents, which could potentially interact with cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYP family) involved in drug metabolism. This interaction could affect the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the molecule.
Step 4: Given the presence of multiple nitrogen-containing heterocycles and aromatic rings, this molecule might have affinity for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) such as HTR2A (serotonin receptor), HTR2B, and HTR2C (serotonin receptors), which are involved in neurotransmission and mood regulation.
Step 5: Considering the overall structure and the presence of amine and quaternary ammonium groups, this molecule may also interact with enzymes involved in neurotransmitter metabolism, such as SLC6A2 (norepinephrine transporter) and SLC6A4 (serotonin transporter).
Summary of related gene names:
- KCNH2
- CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP3A4
- HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C
- SLC6A2, SLC6A4
Note: Not all listed genes are directly related based on the provided structural information; only those that align with the described features are included in the summary. Step 1: The molecule contains functional groups such as amine (-NH2) and carbonyl (C=O), suggesting it could interact with receptors or enzymes.
Step 2: The presence of a quaternary ammonium salt (N+) indicates potential binding to ion channels or receptors.
Step 3: The benzene ring and substituents suggest possible interaction with CYP enzymes involved in drug metabolism.
Step 4: Multiple nitrogen-containing heterocycles and aromatic rings imply potential affinity for GPCRs like serotonin receptors.
Step 5: Amine and quaternary ammonium groups may interact with neurotransmitter transporters.
Note: The summary focuses on the most relevant genes based on the molecule's structure and potential interactions. Other genes listed do not have direct structural evidence from the given molecule.
