Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: C=CCSc1ncccc1C(=O)NCc1ccc(C)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring system, which is common in many drugs that interact with receptors and enzymes. This suggests potential interactions with genes encoding receptors and enzymes.
Step 2: The presence of a nitrile group (-CN) and an amide group (C=O-N) indicates the molecule could be a ligand for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are often targeted by drugs containing such functional groups.
Step 3: The molecule has a phenylacetyl moiety (Ph-COO), which is known to bind to certain enzyme systems like those encoded by CYP2D6, suggesting possible interaction with this gene.
Step 4: Given the presence of a quinolone-like structure, it may interact with enzymes involved in metabolism, such as those encoded by CYP2C9 and CYP3A4.
Step 5: The overall structure, including the amide and aromatic rings, aligns well with potential binding sites for receptors like HTR2A (serotonin receptor), indicating a possible interaction with this gene.
Related gene names:
- CYP2D6
- CYP2C9
- CYP3A4
- HTR2A
These genes encode enzymes and receptors that are involved in drug metabolism and response, making them relevant to the described molecular structure. Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring system, which is common in many drugs that interact with receptors and enzymes. This suggests potential interactions with genes encoding receptors and enzymes.
These genes encode enzymes and receptors that are involved in drug metabolism and response, making them relevant to the described molecular structure. 
Note: The summary does not include all the genes listed, but focuses on the most likely candidates based on the molecular structure. The remaining genes might be less directly related unless additional information about their specific functions and the molecule's mechanism of action is provided. Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring system, which is common in many drugs that interact with receptors and enzymes. This suggests potential interactions with genes encoding receptors and enzymes.
Step 3: The molecule has a
