Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: C[NH+](C)CCOC(c1ccccc1)c1ccccc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given SMILES string represents a complex molecule that includes a nitrogen atom with a positive charge, which suggests it could be an amine or amide derivative. The presence of aromatic rings and hydroxyl groups indicates this compound likely has electrophilic and nucleophilic reactive sites, which are important for interactions with proteins.
Step 2: Looking at the genes provided, many of them are associated with neurotransmitter receptors and enzymes involved in signal transduction pathways. For example, DRD2, HTR1A, and HTR2A encode for dopamine receptors, while CYP2D6 encodes for a cytochrome P450 enzyme involved in drug metabolism. These genes play crucial roles in how the brain processes and responds to various compounds, including drugs.
Step 3: Considering the molecule's structure, its ability to interact with proteins is likely due to its polar functional groups (such as the amine and hydroxyl groups), which can form hydrogen bonds and other interactions with protein surfaces. This suggests that the molecule might bind to receptors or enzymes encoded by the genes mentioned above.
Step 4: Specifically, the molecule's structure might allow it to interact with neurotransmitter receptors such as DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, and HTR2B, as well as with enzymes like CYP2D6, which metabolizes many psychoactive substances.
Step 5: Based on the molecular structure and the function of the listed genes, the most likely related genes are: DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, CYP2D6.
Summary of Related Genes: DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, CYP2D6.
