Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: C[NH+]1CCC(CN=c2ccc3ncc(-c4cccc(OC(F)(F)F)c4)n3[n-]2)CC1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided SMILES string represents a complex organic molecule that contains several functional groups such as amide, aromatic rings, and a positively charged nitrogen atom. The presence of aromatic rings and amide groups suggests the molecule could interact with proteins that have similar structural motifs.
Step 2: A key feature of this molecule is the positively charged nitrogen group, which can form ionic interactions with negatively charged residues in protein binding sites. This interaction pattern is relevant to receptors and ion channels that have positively charged regions for ligand binding.
Step 3: The molecule also includes a benzene ring system, which is characteristic of many receptor ligands and can be involved in hydrophobic interactions. This type of interaction is particularly important for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which often have hydrophobic binding pockets.
Step 4: Considering the above structural features, the molecule is likely to interact with proteins involved in neurotransmission and signal transduction pathways. Genes encoding these proteins include HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6, all of which code for different subtypes of serotonin receptors, and DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4, which encode dopamine receptors.
Step 5: Therefore, the related genes are HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4. These genes are involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter signaling, particularly related to serotonin and dopamine systems. Summary of related gene names: HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4.
