Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: C[NH+](C)S(=O)(=O)c1ccc(C(=O)N=c2[n-]nc(-c3ccc4c(c3)CCCC4)o2)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule is a complex organic compound containing nitrogen, sulfur, oxygen, carbon, and hydrogen atoms. It includes an amine group (-NH2), a positively charged amide group (-NH+), a sulfonate ester group (-SO3-), and a benzene ring. The presence of a positively charged amide group suggests this molecule could act as a ligand or substrate for enzymes or receptors that interact with positively charged amino groups.
Step 2: The benzene ring and the attached functional groups (such as the sulfonate ester and the amide) indicate potential interactions with aromatic amino acids or other aromatic residues in proteins. This structural feature might allow the molecule to bind to transmembrane receptors or transporters, which often contain aromatic residues in their binding pockets.
Step 3: Given the presence of the amide group and the overall molecular structure, this compound may have affinity for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). GPCRs are known to be involved in signaling pathways and are targets for many drugs. Specific GPCRs like HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C, which are involved in serotonin signaling, might be relevant due to the amine functionality and the overall size and shape of the molecule.
Step 4: The molecule’s structure also hints at possible interactions with enzymes involved in drug metabolism. Enzymes such as CYP2D6, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4, which are part of the cytochrome P450 family, could metabolize this molecule, affecting its pharmacological activity and duration of action.
Step 5: Considering the above points, the related genes include those encoding GPCRs involved in neurotransmitter signaling (e.g., HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C) and enzymes involved in drug metabolism (e.g., CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP3A4).
Summary of Related Genes:
- GPCRs: HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C
- Drug Metabolism Enzymes: CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP3A4 Step 1: The molecule is a complex organic compound containing nitrogen, sulfur, oxygen, carbon, and hydrogen atoms. It includes an amine group (-NH2), a positively charged amide group (-NH+), a sulfonate ester group (-SO3-), and a benzene ring. The presence of a positively charged amide group suggests this molecule could act as a ligand or substrate for enzymes or receptors that interact with positively charged amino groups.
Step 3: Given the presence of the amide group and the overall molecular structure, this compound may have affinity for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). GPCRs are known to be involved in signaling pathways and are targets for many drugs. Specific GPCRs like HTR2A,
