Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: C[NH+](C)CCC=C1c2ccccc2COc2ccccc21, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule, represented by the SMILES string C[NH+](C)CCC=C1c2ccccc2COc2ccccc21, contains a quinolizidine ring system, which is a nitrogen-containing heterocyclic compound. This structural feature suggests that the molecule could interact with proteins that have binding sites for such compounds, particularly those involved in neurotransmission and signal transduction.
Step 2: The presence of a positively charged amine group (NH+) in the molecule indicates potential interactions with receptors or transporters that have negatively charged binding pockets. This could be relevant to genes encoding receptors or transporters that are known to bind positively charged ligands.
Step 3: The aromatic rings and the benzene-like structure suggest that the molecule may have affinity for enzymes or receptors that recognize aromatic compounds, such as those involved in metabolism or signaling pathways. This could be pertinent to genes like CYP enzymes, which metabolize various xenobiotics and endogenous substances.
Step 4: Given the presence of a phenolic hydroxyl group (O-H), the molecule might exhibit activity against enzymes or receptors that are sensitive to such functional groups, such as those involved in neurotransmitter metabolism or receptor activation. This could relate to genes like HTR (serotonin receptors) and PTGS1 (prostaglandin synthase).
Step 5: The overall structure of the molecule, including its heterocyclic and aromatic components, suggests it could interact with ion channels or G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). This would be relevant to genes like KCNH2 (potassium channel subfamily H member 2) and HRH1 (histamine H1 receptor).
Summary of related gene names: CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, KCNH2, HRH1.
