Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: C[NH+](CCOc1ccc(NS(C)(=O)=O)cc1)CCc1ccc(NS(C)(=O)=O)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure including an amine group (-NH+) attached to a benzene ring and multiple other functional groups such as carboxylic acids (COOH), esters (O=C-O), and amide bonds (N-C=O). The presence of the amine group suggests basicity, which could interact with acidic sites on proteins.
Step 2: The molecule also contains nitrogen heterocycles, specifically a pyridine ring (c1ccc(NS(C)(=O)=O)cc1) and a pyrrole ring (NS(C)(=O)=O), which are known to be involved in binding to various receptors and enzymes. These rings can form hydrogen bonds and π-π stacking interactions with amino acid residues in proteins.
Step 3: The presence of aromatic rings (benzene and pyridine) and polar functional groups (amine, carboxylic acid, and amide) suggests that this molecule could interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and ion channels, which often have binding sites for molecules with similar chemical properties.
Step 4: Considering the potential interactions with GPCRs and ion channels, the molecule might be related to several genes encoding for these types of proteins. Specifically, it could potentially interact with genes like DRD2 (Dopamine receptor D2), HTR2A (Serotonin receptor 5-HT2A), HTR2B (Serotonin receptor 5-HT2B), HTR2C (Serotonin receptor 5-HT2C), and CHRM1 (Cholinergic receptor muscarinic M1).
Step 5: Additionally, due to the presence of ester and amide functionalities, the molecule may also interact with enzymes that metabolize drugs, such as those encoded by CYP2C19 and CYP2D6, which are involved in phase I metabolism.
Summary of related gene names: DRD2, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, CHRM1, CYP2C19, CYP2D6. The molecule likely interacts with these genes through its chemical structure and functional groups, potentially affecting their activities and functions.
