Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: C[NH+]1CCN(c2ccc(N=c3nc4c(c[n-]3)cc(C#N)c(=O)n4C3CCCC3)cc2)CC1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given SMILES string represents a complex organic molecule containing several functional groups such as amine, amide, carbonyl, and aromatic rings. Notably, the molecule contains an amino group (-NH+) which is characteristic of histamine-like compounds.
Step 2: The presence of the amino group and the overall structure suggest that this molecule could interact with receptors that bind histamine or other similar molecules. Histamine is known to interact with H1, H2, and H3 receptors, which are encoded by genes like HIST1H1D (homologous to the human H1 receptor), HIST2H2BE (homologous to the human H2 receptor), and HIST3H1C (homologous to the human H3 receptor). However, the provided gene list does not include any direct homologs for these histamine receptors.
Step 3: Among the provided genes, the ones that might be indirectly related to the interaction of the molecule with histamine-like compounds are those involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter systems and receptors. For example, DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4 encode dopamine receptors, which can interact with various neurotransmitters, including histamine. Dopamine is also known to modulate the activity of histamine-producing neurons.
Step 4: Another relevant gene is HTR2A, which encodes the serotonin 5-HT2A receptor. Serotonin and histamine have overlapping functions in the central nervous system, and both can influence each other's activity through complex signaling pathways.
Step 5: Based on the above analysis, the genes potentially related to the molecule described by the SMILES string are: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, and HTR2A. These genes are involved in neurotransmitter systems and may be influenced by or interact with histamine-like compounds.
Summary of Related Gene Names:
- DRD2
- DRD3
- DRD4
- HTR2A
The molecule is likely to interact with or influence the function of these genes through its histamine-like characteristics. However, it's important to note that without experimental evidence, this is a hypothesis based on structural similarity and biological context. Step 1: The given SMILES string describes a complex organic molecule with several functional groups, including an amine group (-NH+).
Step 2: The presence of an amine group suggests potential interactions with receptors that bind amines, such as histamine receptors. This could imply a relationship with genes encoding these receptors.
Step 3: Among the provided genes, those directly related to histamine receptors would be the most relevant. However, the provided list does not include specific histamine receptor genes like H1R, H2R, or H3R. Instead, it includes genes for other receptors that might interact with histamine or have overlapping functions.
Step 4: Genes related to dopamine receptors (DRD2, DRD3, DRD4) and serotonin receptors (HTR2A) could be indirectly related due to the complex interactions between neurotransmitters in the brain.
Step 5: Summarizing the related gene names from the provided list, the genes that might be related to the molecule are: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, and HTR2A
