Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: C[NH+](CC(=O)Nc1ccc(F)c(F)c1)S(=O)(=O)c1cccc2nsnc12, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide any additional information.
Step 1: The molecule contains a nitrogen atom with a positive charge, which suggests it may interact with proteins that have binding sites for positively charged amino acids. This feature could be relevant to proteins like G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), which often have regions that bind to positively charged molecules.
Step 2: The molecule also includes a pyrrolidine ring and a thiosemicarbazone moiety. These structural elements are known to interact with certain enzymes and receptors, particularly those involved in neurotransmission and signaling pathways.
Step 3: Given the presence of a thiosemicarbazone moiety, this molecule might interact with enzymes such as CYP2D6, which is known to metabolize drugs containing similar functional groups.
Step 4: The molecule's structure, especially the presence of aromatic rings and functional groups, suggests potential interactions with receptors involved in neurotransmission, such as HTR2A (serotonin receptor 2A) and DRD2 (dopamine receptor D2).
Step 5: Based on the molecule's structure and functional groups, the related genes include: CYP2D6, HTR2A, DRD2.
Summary of related genes: CYP2D6, HTR2A, DRD2.
