Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC(=O)c1c(C)c2c[n-]c(=Nc3ccc(N4CC[NH2+]CC4)cn3)nc2n(C2CCCC2)c1=O, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided SMILES string represents a complex molecule that includes a pyrrole ring system, a pyridine ring, and a benzene ring. The presence of a carboxamide group (-CONH2) and an imidazole ring suggests this molecule may be a derivative of an amide or a heterocyclic compound.
Step 2: The molecule's structure includes functional groups such as amides, which are often involved in interactions with proteins that have amino acid residues that can form hydrogen bonds or other types of interactions with the amide group. This structural feature could potentially interact with enzymes or receptors that contain these amino acid residues.
Step 3: Given the presence of an imidazole ring, which is a common component in histidine residues, this molecule might interact with proteins containing histidine residues. Histidine residues are known to play important roles in the binding sites of many enzymes and receptors, particularly those involved in neurotransmission and signal transduction pathways.
Step 4: Considering the potential interactions with histidine residues, several genes from the list are likely to be relevant. These include genes encoding proteins that contain histidine residues in their active sites or regulatory regions, such as HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6, which encode various subtypes of serotonin receptors.
Step 5: Additionally, the molecule's structure might also interact with other genes involved in neurotransmission, such as DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4, which encode dopamine receptors, further supporting the involvement of these genes in potential molecular interactions.
Summary of related gene names: HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4. These genes are primarily associated with neurotransmitter function and receptor binding.
