Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC(=O)N=c1[n-]o[n-]c1=NC(=O)c1ccc(C(C)(C)C)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide any other information.
Step 1: The molecule is a heterocyclic amide with a benzene ring and a pyrrolidine ring fused together, featuring a carboxamide group and a nitrogen atom with negative charges. This structure suggests potential interactions with proteins that have similar chemical features or that are involved in ion transport or neurotransmitter binding.
Step 2: The presence of a benzene ring and a carboxamide group could indicate a relationship with enzymes like CYP2D6, which metabolizes various drugs including those with aromatic rings and amide groups, and CYP3A4, which is involved in the metabolism of numerous drugs with diverse structures.
Step 3: The negative charged nitrogen atoms might suggest interactions with receptors or transporters that bind negatively charged molecules, such as DRD2, which binds dopamine, a negatively charged neurotransmitter.
Step 4: The overall structure does not directly align with the known ligands for many of the listed genes but does show some overlap with receptors like HTR2A and HTR2B, which bind serotonin, a neurotransmitter.
Step 5: Based on the molecular structure and its potential interactions, the related genes include: CYP2D6, CYP3A4, DRD2, HTR2A, HTR2B. 
Summary of related gene names: CYP2D6, CYP3A4, DRD2, HTR2A, HTR2B. Step 1: The molecule is a heterocyclic amide with a benzene ring and a pyrrolidine ring fused together, featuring a carboxamide group and a nitrogen atom with negative charges. This structure suggests potential interactions with proteins that have similar chemical features or that are involved in ion transport or neurotransmitter binding.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2D6, CYP3A4, DRD2, HTR2A, HTR2B. Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring and a carboxamide group, suggesting possible interactions with metabolic enzymes.
Step 2: The presence of a nitrogen atom with negative charges indicates potential interactions with negatively charged neurotransmitters or receptors.
Step 3: The structure aligns with the ligands of DRD2, which binds dopamine, a negatively charged neurotransmitter.
Step 4: The molecule also shows similarities to the ligands of HTR2
