Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC(=O)Nc1ccc(S(=O)(=O)NC(CC(=O)NCCC2=CCCCC2)C(C)C)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule is a complex organic compound containing a carboxamide group (-CONH-), a benzene ring, and several other functional groups such as sulfonyl (S(=O)(=O)), amide (C(=O)N), and alkyl chains. These structural features suggest that it may interact with enzymes or receptors involved in metabolism, transport, or signaling pathways.
Step 2: The presence of a benzene ring and various functional groups could indicate potential interactions with cytochrome P450 enzymes, particularly CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, which are known to metabolize drugs through oxidation reactions involving hydroxylations and deaminations. These enzymes play crucial roles in drug metabolism and may be directly affected by the molecule's structure.
Step 3: The molecule also contains a sulfonyl group, which might suggest interactions with sulfotransferases or other enzymes that modify compounds with sulfate groups. This could be relevant for genes like CYP2C9, which is involved in both metabolic and regulatory functions.
Step 4: Given the presence of an amide group and potential for hydrogen bonding, the molecule might interact with receptors or ion channels that have similar functional groups, such as HTR2A (serotonin receptor 2A) and KCNH2 (potassium channel subfamily H member 2). These receptors and channels are involved in neurotransmission and cardiac function.
Step 5: Considering the overall structure and the specific functional groups present, the molecule could potentially affect the expression or activity of genes related to drug metabolism, neurotransmission, and ion channel regulation. The related genes include CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, HTR2A, and KCNH2.
Summary of related genes: CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, HTR2A, KCNH2.
