Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC(=O)Nc1ccc(S(=O)(=O)[NH+]2CC[NH+](C(=O)c3cccnc3)CC2)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule provided is a complex organic compound with multiple functional groups including an amide (CC(=O)), a nitrogen-containing heterocycle (Nc1ccc), a sulfonamide (S(=O)(=O)), and a series of aromatic rings. This structure suggests it could be an inhibitor or modulator of enzymes or receptors involved in signal transduction pathways.
Step 2: The presence of a sulfonamide group (S(=O)(=O)) and a nitrogen-containing heterocycle (Nc1ccc) indicates potential interactions with proteins that contain cysteine residues, such as ion channels or G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). These functional groups are common in drugs targeting neurotransmitter systems.
Step 3: Given the pattern of aromatic rings and the amide linkage, this molecule likely interacts with enzymes or receptors that are involved in the metabolism of neurotransmitters or hormones. For example, it could interact with enzymes like CYP2D6, which metabolizes various drugs and hormones, or receptors like DRD2, which is a dopamine receptor.
Step 4: Considering the presence of a nitrogen atom with a positive charge (NH+), the molecule might also interact with ion channels or receptors that have positively charged binding sites, such as KDR (kinase insert domain receptor), which is involved in signaling pathways that regulate cell growth and survival.
Step 5: Based on the structural analysis, the molecule could be related to several genes involved in neurotransmitter metabolism and signaling, such as CYP2D6, DRD2, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and KDR. Additionally, due to its potential to affect signaling pathways, it may also be related to PTGS1, which codes for an enzyme involved in prostaglandin synthesis.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2D6, DRD2, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, KDR, PTGS1.
