Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC(C)Oc1ccc2c(=O)c3cc(C(=O)[O-])ccc3oc2c1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided SMILES string represents a complex molecule with multiple functional groups including an amide (C(=O)N), a carboxylic acid (O=C(O)), and an alcohol (OC). This molecule likely has pharmacological activity and may interact with proteins involved in signaling pathways or transport processes.
Step 2: Analyzing the structure for potential receptor binding sites, the presence of the amide and carboxylic acid functionalities suggests this molecule could be a ligand for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) or ion channels, which are often targets for drugs affecting neurotransmission and signaling.
Step 3: Considering the molecular weight and functional groups, the molecule might be a selective agonist or antagonist for certain receptors. Notably, it could target receptors such as HTR2A (serotonin 5-HT2A receptor) due to the presence of the amide group, which is a common feature in serotonin receptor ligands.
Step 4: The molecule's ability to bind to and modulate receptor function would depend on its interaction with specific amino acid residues in the transmembrane domains of the receptor. Given the pattern of functional groups, it is plausible that the molecule interacts with GPCRs like HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C, all of which belong to the 5-HT2 receptor family.
Step 5: Based on the above analysis, the related genes include those encoding the 5-HT2 receptor subtypes: HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C. These genes are involved in serotonin signaling and are known to be targets for various psychiatric and neurological disorders.
Summary of related gene names: HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C.
