Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC(C)C[NH+](CC(C)C)S(=O)(=O)[NH+]1CCC(C(=O)NCc2ccc(F)cc2)CC1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule contains several functional groups including an amine group (-NH2), a sulfonate ester (S(=O)(=O)), and a benzene ring system. The presence of an amine group suggests the molecule could be an agonist or inhibitor for receptors that bind to amines, such as G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 2: The benzene ring system with substituents like methyl groups (C) and fluorine (F) indicates the molecule might interact with proteins that have hydrophobic binding sites or contain aromatic residues, which are common in many receptor proteins.
Step 3: The presence of a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) through its connection to a benzene ring suggests potential interaction with enzymes or receptors that recognize acidic functional groups, such as certain GPCRs.
Step 4: Considering the structure and functional groups, the molecule could potentially interact with receptors or enzymes encoded by genes involved in neurotransmission, hormone signaling, and inflammatory responses. Specific examples include HTR1A (serotonin receptor), HTR2A (serotonin receptor), ESR1 (estrogen receptor), CYP2C19 (cytochrome P450 enzyme), and PTGS1 (prostaglandin synthase).
Step 5: Based on the molecular structure and the interactions it may have, the related genes include: HTR1A, HTR2A, ESR1, CYP2C19, and PTGS1. These genes encode proteins that are directly or indirectly involved in the pathways modulated by the molecule's structural features. 
List of related genes: HTR1A, HTR2A, ESR1, CYP2C19, PTGS1.
