Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC(C)(C)[NH2+]CC(O)c1ccc([O-])c(CO)c1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure including aromatic rings, amine groups, and carboxylate groups. Notably, it contains a pyrrolidine ring and a phenol group, which are characteristic features often found in ligands for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and other membrane receptors.
Step 2: The presence of an amine group (-NH2+) suggests potential interaction with ion channels or receptors that bind basic ligands, such as some GPCRs and ionotropic receptors.
Step 3: The phenolic hydroxyl group (-OH) indicates the molecule could be involved in hydrogen bonding interactions, which are common in receptor-ligand binding, particularly for enzymes and receptors that recognize polar molecules.
Step 4: Given the complexity and functional groups present, this molecule might interact with multiple genes. However, based on the provided list, it is more likely to interact with genes encoding receptors or enzymes that have binding sites for similar functional groups, such as amino groups, hydroxyl groups, and aromatic rings.
Step 5: Considering the molecular structure and its potential interactions, the most likely related genes from the provided list are: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HRH1, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, and LCK. These genes encode for various types of receptors and enzymes that could potentially interact with the described molecule due to their specific binding sites and functions. 
Summary of Related Genes:
- ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HRH1, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, LCK
Note: The exact interaction would require further experimental validation. The above summary is based on the structural features of the molecule and the known functions of the listed genes. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure including aromatic rings, amine groups, and carboxylate groups. This structure is characteristic of ligands that can interact with various types of biological receptors and enzymes.
Step 2: The presence of an amine group (-NH2+) suggests potential interaction with ion channels or receptors that bind basic ligands, such as GPCRs and certain ionotropic receptors.
Step 4: Given the complexity and functional groups present, this molecule might interact with multiple genes. Based on the provided list, it is more likely to interact with genes encoding receptors or enzymes that have binding sites for similar functional groups, such as amino groups, hydroxyl groups, and aromatic rings.
Step 5: Considering the molecular structure and its potential interactions, the most likely related genes from the provided list are: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HRH1, DRD2,
