Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC(C)(Oc1ccc(Cl)cc1)C(=O)[O-], and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule is a complex organic compound that includes a benzene ring, an oxygen-containing functional group (likely an ester), and a negatively charged group (-O-). This structure suggests it could interact with receptors or enzymes involved in signal transduction or metabolism.
Step 2: Considering the functional groups present, particularly the carboxylic acid group (C=O) and the phenolic hydroxyl group (O), this molecule might interact with enzymes such as CYP2D6, which metabolizes drugs containing these functional groups, or with receptors that bind ligands with similar structures.
Step 3: The presence of a halogen (Cl) substituent on the aromatic ring could suggest interaction with genes involved in drug transport, such as ABCB1 (MDR1), which encodes a multidrug resistance protein that can pump out certain compounds including those with halogen substitutions.
Step 4: The overall structure does not directly indicate strong affinity for neurotransmitter receptors like DRD2, HTR2A, or other GPCRs, but it may still influence receptor function indirectly through modulation of ion channels or other proteins.
Step 5: Given the above analysis, the most likely related genes are those involved in drug metabolism (CYP2D6) and drug transport (ABCB1).
Summary of related gene names:
- ABCB1
- CYP2D6
These genes are primarily involved in the metabolism and transport of drugs, which aligns with the chemical structure of the given molecule. Other genes listed, such as neurotransmitter receptors, do not have a direct structural basis for interaction with this molecule based on the provided information.
