Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC1(C)OC(=O)C(OCC2CC2)=C1c1ccc(S(C)(=O)=O)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide any additional information.
Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring with a sulfur-containing moiety (thioether) attached to it, indicating potential interactions with proteins involved in signal transduction pathways.
Step 2: The presence of an aromatic amide group suggests possible binding to enzymes or receptors that contain aromatic amino acid residues in their active sites.
Step 3: The molecule has a quinone structure, which could interact with enzymes like CYP2D6 involved in drug metabolism.
Step 4: The presence of a phenolic hydroxyl group might allow for interactions with proteins such as HTR2A, which have aromatic binding pockets.
Step 5: The overall structure includes multiple functional groups that could potentially interact with various receptor types, including G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and ion channels.
Related genes: CYP2D6, HTR2A
This response focuses on the key structural features of the molecule and their potential interactions with the specified genes. The summary provides a concise list of related genes based on the described molecular patterns.
