Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC1(C)OC(=O)[N-]C1=O, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule described by the SMILES string CC1(C)OC(=O)[N-]C1=O corresponds to the chemical compound N-(1-(cyclohexylamino)-1-oxoethyl)-2-aminobenzamide. This compound has a benzamide group attached to an amide and an amino group, which suggests it may be involved in modulating receptors or enzymes that interact with such functional groups.
Step 2: The structure includes a benzamide (a phenyl ring with an amide group) and an amine group, which are common motifs for ligands binding to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and other protein targets. This indicates potential interactions with receptors or enzymes that have similar functional groups.
Step 3: Given the presence of an amine group and a benzamide, this molecule could interact with receptors like DRD2 (Dopamine receptor D2), HTR1A (Serotonin receptor 1A), and HTR2A (Serotonin receptor 2A). These receptors are known to bind compounds with similar functional groups, particularly amines and aromatic rings.
Step 4: Additionally, the presence of an amide group could suggest interactions with enzymes like CYP2D6, which metabolizes many drugs and endogenous substances containing amide bonds. This enzyme is involved in phase I metabolism, which often involves amide hydrolysis.
Step 5: Based on the structural analysis, the genes related to this molecule include: DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, CYP2D6. 
Summary of related genes: DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, CYP2D6.
