Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cc1ccccc1C(=O)[NH+]1CCN(c2ccc([N+](=O)[O-])c(N3CCOCC3)c2)CC1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure containing multiple rings and functional groups, including a benzene ring, a pyrrole ring, and a carboxamide group. The presence of these features suggests the molecule could interact with proteins that have similar structural motifs or are involved in signaling pathways associated with these functional groups.
Step 2: The carboxamide group (-CONH2) indicates the molecule might act as an inhibitor or activator of enzymes or receptors that recognize this functional group. This could include enzymes like CYP2C19, which is involved in the metabolism of various drugs and xenobiotics, or receptors like HTR2A, which is part of the serotonin signaling pathway.
Step 3: The presence of amine and amide functionalities (NH+ and CONH2) suggests potential interactions with ion channels or receptors that bind to these functional groups. For instance, CNR1, which is a cannabinoid receptor, and SLC6A4, a neurotransmitter transporter, both contain amino acid residues that could interact with these functional groups.
Step 4: Given the complexity of the molecule and its potential to interact with multiple targets, it is likely to affect several genes involved in different signaling pathways. However, based on the provided features, the molecule is more likely to be related to genes involved in drug metabolism (CYP2C19), neurotransmission (HTR2A, SLC6A4), and receptor binding (CNR1).
Step 5: Summarizing the related gene names: CYP2C19, HTR2A, SLC6A4, CNR1. These genes are most likely to be affected by the molecule due to their involvement in drug metabolism, neurotransmission, and receptor binding. Other genes listed may not have a direct relationship with the molecule based on the given structural information. ['CYP2C19', 'HTR2A', 'SLC6A4', 'CNR1']
