Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cc1cc(SCc2sc(-c3ccc(C(F)(F)F)cc3)nc2C)ccc1OCC(=O)[O-], and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided molecule contains several functional groups such as amide (C=O), sulfoxide (S=O), and aromatic rings (cyclohexane-like structures). Notably, it also has a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) and an alcohol (-OH) group, which are common in ligands that interact with various receptors and enzymes.
Step 2: The presence of fluorine atoms (F) in the molecule suggests potential interactions with proteins that recognize halogenated compounds, such as certain transporters and enzymes involved in xenobiotic metabolism.
Step 3: Given the complex structure with multiple functional groups and the presence of a carboxylic acid group, this molecule could potentially act as a ligand for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) or other ion channels, which are often targeted by drugs. For example, the structure might interact with adrenergic receptors (such as ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2) or muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4).
Step 4: Additionally, the molecule’s ability to form hydrogen bonds due to the -OH group and its overall shape might allow it to bind to nuclear receptors like PPARγ (PPARG), which is involved in lipid metabolism and inflammation.
Step 5: Considering the complexity and the presence of multiple functional groups, the molecule could interact with enzymes involved in drug metabolism, such as CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4, which metabolize many drugs including those that target the above-mentioned receptors.
Summary of Related Genes: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, PPARG, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP3A4. 
These genes encode proteins that the molecule may interact with based on its chemical structure. Further testing would be needed to confirm these interactions.
