Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cc1ccc(-c2nn(C(C)(C)C)c3[n-]cnc(=N)c23)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide any additional text.
Step 1: The molecule contains a tricyclic structure with a quinoline ring system, which is characteristic of certain drug classes such as antidepressants and antipsychotics.
Step 2: The presence of a pyrrolidine ring attached to the quinoline core suggests potential interactions with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), particularly those involved in neurotransmitter signaling.
Step 3: The molecular structure includes a nitrile group (-CN) and amide functionalities, which are known to interact with enzymes like cytochrome P450s (CYPs) involved in drug metabolism.
Step 4: The presence of aromatic rings and heteroatoms (such as nitrogen) could indicate binding sites for proteins involved in ion channels or transporters, potentially affecting genes like KCNH2 (hERG potassium channel).
Step 5: Given the pharmacophoric features, this molecule may be related to genes encoding receptors and transporters involved in neurotransmission and drug metabolism, including DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, and SLC6A4.
Related Genes: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, SLC6A4 Step 1: The molecule contains a tricyclic structure with a quinoline ring system, which is characteristic of certain drug classes such as antidepressants and antipsychotics.
Related Genes: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, SLC6A4 Step 1: The molecule contains a tricyclic structure with a quinoline ring system, characteristic of certain drug classes like antidepressants and antipsychotics.
Step 2: The pyrrolidine ring attached to the quinoline core suggests potential interactions with GPCRs, especially those involved in neurotransmitter signaling.
Step 3: Nitrile and amide functionalities indicate possible enzyme interactions, notably with CYPs involved in drug metabolism.
Step 4: Aromatic rings and heteroatoms suggest binding sites for ion channels or transporters, possibly affecting KCNH2.
Step 5: Pharmacophoric features point to genes encoding receptors and transporters in neurotransmission and metabolism, including DRD2, DRD3, DR
