Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cc1c(OCC(F)(F)F)ccnc1C[S+](O)c1nc2ccccc2[n-]1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule contains a tricyclic structure with a heterocyclic ring (indicated by the 'c' in the SMILES string) which includes oxygen, fluorine, and nitrogen atoms. This type of molecular structure often interacts with receptors that have binding sites for heterocycles, such as adrenergic receptors.
Step 2: The molecule also has a sulfonamide group attached to a carbon atom, which is characteristic of many drugs that target ion channels or neurotransmitter receptors. This feature may interact with genes encoding ion channels or neurotransmitter receptors.
Step 3: Additionally, the presence of multiple functional groups (like the amide and ester groups) suggests that this molecule could act as an agonist or antagonist for various receptors or enzymes, depending on its interactions with specific amino acid residues in the target proteins.
Step 4: Considering the features mentioned, the molecule is likely to be related to genes that encode adrenergic receptors (such as ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2), which are known to bind and respond to heterocyclic compounds. It might also be related to genes encoding G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) like HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, which are known to interact with small molecules through their binding pockets.
Step 5: Based on the molecular structure and its potential interactions with receptors and enzymes, the related genes include: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C.
Summary of related genes: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C.
