Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cc1ccccc1N1CC[NH+](C(=O)c2ccc(Oc3ccc(C(F)(F)F)cn3)cc2)CC1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided molecule is a complex organic compound containing a benzene ring system, a nitrogen atom, and a carboxamide group. This structure suggests potential interactions with proteins that have binding sites for small molecules, particularly those involved in neurotransmission and signaling.
Step 2: Analyzing the pattern of the molecule, it includes a benzodiazepine-like scaffold (with a nitrogen atom and carboxamide group), which is known to interact with various receptors and enzymes. This specific structural feature could indicate a relationship with genes encoding receptors or enzymes that bind benzodiazepine-like compounds.
Step 3: The molecule's structure also contains fluorine atoms, which are often found in drugs targeting specific proteins. The presence of these fluorines might suggest a relationship with genes encoding proteins that have high affinity for fluorinated ligands, such as certain ion channels or transporters.
Step 4: Considering the overall structure, the molecule could potentially interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) due to its size and functional groups. GPCRs are encoded by several genes listed, including HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6, which are involved in the regulation of serotonin signaling.
Step 5: Additionally, the molecule's structure hints at potential interactions with enzymes involved in drug metabolism, such as those encoded by CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6, which are responsible for metabolizing a wide range of xenobiotics, including drugs.
Summary of related gene names: HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6. These genes encode proteins that may be directly or indirectly influenced by the provided molecule's structure and function.
