Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cc1cc(Br)ccc1NC(=O)CCSc1ccccc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not generate any examples.
Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring with a bromine substituent, which is part of the structure of the compound. This feature does not directly relate to any of the listed genes, but it indicates that the molecule may interact with proteins involved in drug metabolism or transport.
Step 2: The molecule includes a pyridine ring connected to a carboxamide group (NC(=O)C), suggesting potential interactions with enzymes or receptors that have a role in signal transduction or neurotransmission. Specifically, this structural motif could be relevant to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and enzymes involved in the metabolism of neurotransmitters.
Step 3: The presence of a pyrimidine ring and a carboxamide group might indicate the molecule has affinity for GPCRs, such as those mentioned in the gene list like DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6, which are known to modulate various physiological processes including mood, pain perception, and motor control through neurotransmitter signaling.
Step 4: Given the complex structure and potential for multiple functional groups, the molecule might also interact with enzymes involved in phase I and II metabolism, such as those coded by CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4, which are responsible for the oxidation and conjugation of xenobiotics, respectively.
Step 5: Considering the structural diversity and potential for binding to various protein targets, the molecule might indirectly influence the expression or activity of other genes involved in cellular signaling pathways, such as EGFR, PTGS1, and CACNA1H, which play roles in cell growth, inflammation, and calcium signaling, respectively.
Summary of Related Genes: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP3A4, EGFR, PTGS1, CACNA1H.
