Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cc1c(Br)c([N+](=O)[O-])nn1CC(=O)NCc1cccs1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring with a bromine atom attached, a pyrrolidine ring with a positively charged nitrogen and a negatively charged oxygen, and a carboxamide group. These structural features suggest potential interactions with proteins that have similar functional groups or binding sites.
Step 2: Among the given genes, those encoding receptors and transporters are more likely to interact with this molecule due to their involvement in ligand binding. Receptors typically have regions for binding neurotransmitters, hormones, or other signaling molecules, which might match the functional groups present in the molecule.
Step 3: The positively charged nitrogen and carboxamide group could potentially interact with receptors such as DRD2 (Dopamine receptor D2), HTR2A (Serotonin receptor 5-HT2A), and HTR2B (Serotonin receptor 5-HT2B). These receptors are involved in neurotransmission and have binding sites for ligands with similar charges and functional groups.
Step 4: The negatively charged oxygen in the carboxamide group could also interact with transporters like SLC6A2 (Solute Carrier Family 6 Member 2) and SLC6A4 (Solute Carrier Family 6 Member 4), which are known to transport monoamines and other small molecules across cell membranes.
Step 5: Based on the structural analysis and potential interactions, the related genes include: DRD2, HTR2A, HTR2B, SLC6A2, and SLC6A4. These genes encode receptors and transporters that may be influenced by the molecule through direct binding or modulation of their activity. 
Summary of related gene names: DRD2, HTR2A, HTR2B, SLC6A2, SLC6A4.
