Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cc1cc(C)n(-c2cc(N3CC[NH+](C)CC3)ccc2[N+](=O)[O-])n1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule is a complex organic compound with a heterocyclic structure containing a pyrrole ring fused to an imidazole ring, which is part of a larger aromatic system. This structure is known to interact with various receptors and enzymes in the body, particularly those involved in neurotransmission and metabolism.
Step 2: The molecule contains a nitrogen atom that is part of a pyrrole ring, which can form hydrogen bonds and participate in electron transfer processes. This feature may allow the molecule to interact with proteins that have similar binding sites, such as certain G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 3: The presence of a carboxamide group (-CONH2) suggests potential interactions with enzymes like cytochrome P450s (CYPs), which are known to metabolize drugs and other xenobiotics. This could imply a relationship with genes encoding for these enzymes, such as CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6.
Step 4: The molecule also has a quaternary ammonium salt group, which can act as a ligand for various receptors and ion channels. This could indicate a connection to genes encoding for receptors or ion channels, such as HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and KCNH2.
Step 5: Given the molecule's structure and potential interactions with enzymes and receptors, it is likely to be related to several genes involved in neurotransmission and drug metabolism, including: CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and KCNH2. Step 1: The molecule is a complex organic compound with a heterocyclic structure containing a pyrrole ring fused to an imidazole ring, which is part of a larger aromatic system. This structure is known to interact with various receptors and enzymes in the body, particularly those involved in neurotransmission and metabolism.
Step 5: Based on the molecule's structure and potential interactions with enzymes and receptors, it is likely to be related to several genes involved in neurotransmission and drug metabolism, including: CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR
