Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cc1ccc(C(=O)Nc2cccc(C(F)(F)F)c2)cc1N=c1[n-]c(-c2cccnc2)nc2c1cnn2C, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring system with a substituted pyrrole group, a cyano group, and a quinoline-like structure. These structural features are indicative of molecules that could interact with various receptors and transport proteins.
Step 2: The presence of a cyano group (-CN) and a quinoline-like structure suggests potential interactions with cytochrome P450 enzymes, specifically CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, which metabolize many drugs and xenobiotics.
Step 3: The aromatic heterocycles (pyrrole and quinoline) might also engage in interactions with ion channels such as KCNH2, which encodes the hERG potassium channel, and LCK, a tyrosine kinase involved in signal transduction pathways.
Step 4: The molecule’s overall structure could potentially bind to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), given its size and functional groups, particularly DRD2, DRD3, and HTR2A, which are known to have similar binding sites for ligands.
Step 5: Given the presence of a nitrogen-containing heterocycle and a quinoline-like structure, there is a possibility of interaction with genes involved in neurotransmitter metabolism and signaling, such as CNR1 (endocannabinoid receptor) and SLC6A4 (norepinephrine transporter).
Summary of related genes: CYP2D6, CYP3A4, DRD2, DRD3, HTR2A, CNR1, SLC6A4. Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring system with a substituted pyrrole group, a cyano group, and a quinoline-like structure. These structural features are indicative of molecules that could interact with various receptors and transport proteins.
Step 2: The cyano group (-CN) and quinoline-like structure suggest potential interactions with enzymes like CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, which are involved in drug metabolism.
Step 3: The aromatic heterocycles (pyrrole and quinoline) might engage in interactions with ion channels such as KCNH2 and LCK, which are involved in signal transduction pathways.
Step 4: The molecule’s structure could bind to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), particularly DRD2, DRD3, and HTR2A, due to its size and functional groups.
Step 5: The presence of a nitrogen-containing heterocycle and a quinoline-like structure indicates possible interactions with neurotransmitter receptors and transporters, including CNR1 and SLC6A4.
Summary of related genes: CYP2D6, CYP3A4, DRD2, DRD3, HTR2A, CNR1, SLC6A4. 
Note: The summary lists only the genes directly related to the molecule based on its structural features and potential interactions. Other genes like ABL1, ADRA1D, ADRB2, etc., may not be directly related based on the provided information. However, further detailed analysis might reveal indirect relationships. 
Final List of Related Genes:
- CYP2D6
- CYP3A4
- DRD2
- DRD3
-
