Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cc1n[n-]c(=NC(=O)Cc2cccs2)s1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule has a complex structure that includes a nitrogen-containing heterocyclic ring (indicated by 'n' and '[n-]') which is part of a tricyclic structure. This structure suggests potential interactions with molecules that modulate neurotransmitter systems, particularly those involving GABAergic or dopaminergic pathways.
Step 2: The presence of a nitro group (-N=) and an amide group (=NC(=O)) indicates the molecule could act as a ligand for receptors or enzymes involved in signal transduction. Specifically, these functional groups are common in drugs that interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and enzymes like cytochrome P450s.
Step 3: Considering the pattern of the molecule and its functional groups, it may have affinity for receptors such as D2-like dopamine receptors (DRD2, DRD3, DRD4), which are known to be influenced by compounds with similar chemical structures due to their role in neurotransmission.
Step 4: Additionally, the molecule might interact with enzymes like CYP2D6, which is known to metabolize many drugs, including those affecting dopaminergic pathways. This interaction could affect drug efficacy and side effects through metabolic processes.
Step 5: Based on the molecule's structure and the genes associated with neurotransmission and metabolism, the related genes include: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, CYP2D6.
Summary of Related Genes: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, CYP2D6.
