Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cc1nn(-c2ccccc2)c2c1C(=O)[NH+](Cc1ccccc1)C(=O)C(C)(C)C2, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide any additional information.
Step 1: The molecule contains multiple aromatic rings and amine functionalities, which are common in ligands for receptors such as G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). This suggests potential interaction with receptors that have similar functional groups.
Step 2: The presence of a carboxamide group (-CONH2) indicates possible binding to enzymes or receptors that interact with this functional group, such as certain GPCRs or ion channels.
Step 3: The molecule's structure includes a quinoline-like moiety, which could potentially interact with genes involved in drug metabolism, such as those encoding cytochrome P450 enzymes (e.g., CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6).
Step 4: The overall structure does not suggest strong direct interactions with neurotransmitter receptors or transporters listed, but it may influence signaling pathways through its interaction with other molecules.
Step 5: Based on the molecular features, the most likely related genes are those involved in drug metabolism (CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6) and possibly some GPCRs that might interact with the aromatic and amine functionalities.
Summary of Related Genes: CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6
Note: The specific gene relationships are based on the molecule's structural features and known interactions in biological systems. The exact interactions would require further experimental validation. Step 1: The molecule contains multiple aromatic rings and amine functionalities, which are common in ligands for receptors such as G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). This suggests potential interaction with receptors that have similar functional groups.
Note: The specific gene relationships are based on the molecule's structural features and known interactions in biological systems. The exact interactions would require further experimental validation. 
Summary of Related Genes: CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4 (for potential broad-spectrum metabolic activity) Step 1: The molecule contains multiple aromatic rings and amine functionalities, which are common in ligands for receptors such as G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). This suggests potential interaction with receptors that have similar
