Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC[NH+](CC)CC(=O)Nc1c(C)cccc1C, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure with multiple functional groups including an amide group (-CONH), a carboxylate group (-COOH), and aromatic rings. This structure suggests it could be a drug-like molecule with potential for interacting with receptors or enzymes.
Step 2: Notably, the presence of an amine group (-NH+) and a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) indicates that this molecule could potentially act as a ligand or substrate for enzymes involved in metabolism, such as CYP (cytochrome P450) enzymes. Among the listed genes, CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6 are known to be involved in the metabolism of drugs and xenobiotics through hydroxylation reactions.
Step 3: Additionally, the presence of an amide and carboxylate group also suggests the possibility of interaction with ion channels or G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). Genes like KCNH2, which encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel, and HTR2A, which encodes a serotonin receptor, might be relevant due to their involvement in signal transduction pathways.
Step 4: The aromatic ring structure of the molecule might also suggest potential interactions with nuclear receptors, such as those involved in transcriptional regulation. Genes like PPARG, which encodes peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma, could be relevant given its role in lipid metabolism and inflammation.
Step 5: Summarizing the related gene names based on the molecular structure and potential biological activities, the related genes include: CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, KCNH2, HTR2A, PPARG. These genes are associated with drug metabolism, ion channel function, and transcriptional regulation. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure with multiple functional groups including an amide group (-CONH), a carboxylate group (-COOH), and aromatic rings. This structure suggests it could be a drug-like molecule with potential for interacting with receptors or enzymes.
Step 2: The presence of an amine group (-NH+) and a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) indicates that this molecule could potentially act as a ligand or substrate for enzymes involved in metabolism, such as CYP (cytochrome P450) enzymes.
Step 3: The aromatic ring structure of the molecule might also suggest potential interactions with nuclear receptors, such as those involved in transcriptional regulation. Genes like PPARG could be relevant given its role in lipid metabolism and inflammation.
Step 4: The presence of an amide and carboxylate group also suggests the possibility of interaction with ion channels or G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 5: Summary of related gene names: CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, KCNH2, HTR2A, PPARG. 
These genes are associated with drug metabolism, ion channel function, and transcriptional regulation.
