Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC[NH+](CC)S(=O)(=O)c1ccc(C(=O)NCc2nnc(SCC(=O)OC)n2C)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided molecule contains a nitrogen atom that is positively charged (NH+), indicating it has basic properties. This feature is relevant to molecules that interact with receptors or enzymes that have acidic or negatively charged regions for binding.
Step 2: The molecule also includes a sulfonate group (S(=O)(=O)) which suggests it might be an electrophilic or reactive species. Such groups are often involved in covalent interactions with proteins, particularly those containing nucleophilic amino acid residues like cysteine.
Step 3: The presence of a carboxylic acid group (C(=O)O-) in the molecule could indicate potential interaction with proteins that have histidine residues, which can act as proton acceptors.
Step 4: Given the overall structure, this molecule might interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) due to its size and presence of functional groups that could form hydrogen bonds or other types of non-covalent interactions with receptor ligand-binding sites.
Step 5: Based on the above structural analysis, the molecule could be related to several genes encoding GPCRs such as DRD2 (Dopamine D2 receptor), HTR1A (Serotonin 1A receptor), HTR2A (Serotonin 2A receptor), and HTR2B (Serotonin 2B receptor). It may also interact with enzymes or transporters encoded by genes like CYP2D6 (Cytochrome P450 2D6) and SLC6A4 (Solute Carrier Family 6 Member 4, a serotonin transporter).
Summary of related gene names: DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, CYP2D6, SLC6A4. Step 1: The provided molecule contains a nitrogen atom that is positively charged (NH+), indicating it has basic properties. This feature is relevant to molecules that interact with receptors or enzymes that have acidic or negatively charged regions for binding.
Step 5: Based on the above structural analysis, the molecule could be related to several genes encoding GPCRs such as DRD2 (Dopamine D2 receptor), HTR1A (Serotonin 1A receptor), HTR2A (Serotonin 2A receptor), and HTR2B (Serotonin 2B receptor). It may also interact with enzymes or transporters encoded by genes like CYP2D6 (Cytochrome P450 2D6) and SLC6
