Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC[NH+](CC)CCNC(=O)c1cc(Br)c(N)cc1OC, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not generate any examples.
Step 1: The molecule contains a pyrrolidine ring, which is a five-membered nitrogen-containing heterocycle. This structural feature is common in many ligands that interact with receptors, particularly G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are involved in signal transduction pathways. 
Step 2: The presence of an amide group (-CONH+) in the molecule suggests potential interactions with enzymes that metabolize drugs or neurotransmitters, such as CYP2D6 and CYP2C19, which are known to be involved in the metabolism of various psychoactive substances and drugs.
Step 3: The molecule also includes a benzene ring, which can participate in hydrogen bonding and other intermolecular interactions. Such interactions could be relevant for molecules that bind to or modulate the activity of receptors like HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6, which are serotonin receptors.
Step 4: Additionally, the molecule has a bromine atom attached to a carbon atom, which might influence its pharmacokinetic properties, such as its lipophilicity and ability to cross biological membranes. This could affect the molecule's interaction with transporters like ABCB1, which is known to mediate the efflux of certain substrates across cell membranes.
Step 5: Lastly, the presence of a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) in the molecule indicates it could act as an agonist or antagonist at receptors that recognize acidic ligands, such as those involved in the GABAergic and dopaminergic systems, potentially affecting DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4.
Summary of related genes: ABCB1, CYP2D6, CYP2C19, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4. Step 1: The molecule contains a pyrrolidine ring, which is a five-membered nitrogen-containing heterocycle. This structural feature is common in many ligands that interact with receptors, particularly G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are involved in signal transduction pathways.
Step 5: Lastly, the presence of a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) in the molecule indicates it could act as an agonist or antagonist at receptors that recognize acidic ligands, such as those
