Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC[NH+](CC)S(=O)(=O)c1ccc2c(c1)C(=NO)c1cc(S(=O)(=O)[NH+](CC)CC)ccc1-2, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule contains several functional groups such as amide (N-H), carbonyl (C=O), sulfone (S=O), and aromatic rings. Notably, it has a positively charged amine group (NH+) attached to a benzene ring and another positively charged amine group (NH+) connected to a sulfone group. These features suggest the molecule could be an agonist or inhibitor of receptors or enzymes that interact with these functional groups.
Step 2: The presence of the sulfone group and the positively charged amines indicates the molecule may have affinity for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) or other receptors that recognize similar chemical structures. GPCRs are often regulated by ligands that bind to them, causing a conformational change that leads to downstream signaling pathways. The molecule’s structure suggests it might interact with GPCRs involved in neurotransmission or hormone response pathways.
Step 3: Considering the gene list provided, several genes encode for GPCRs or enzymes that could potentially interact with the described molecule. For instance, DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6 all encode for different subtypes of serotonin receptors, which are known to interact with various ligands including agonists and antagonists.
Step 4: Additionally, the molecule's structure might also interact with CYP enzymes, such as CYP2D6, which are involved in the metabolism of many drugs and endogenous substances. The molecule’s functional groups could serve as substrates or inhibitors for these enzymes, affecting their activity and the metabolism of compounds they process.
Step 5: Summarizing the related gene names, the molecule is likely to be related to the following genes: DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, CYP2D6.
Summary of related genes: DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, CYP2D6.
