Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC[NH+](CC)S(=O)(=O)c1ccc(NC(=O)c2cc(-c3ccccc3)nc3ccccc23)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule contains a nitrogen atom with a positive charge, indicated by [NH+]. This suggests that the molecule may be an amine or a derivative thereof, which can interact with receptors that bind to amines.
Step 2: The molecule also has a sulfonate group (-S(=O)(=O)O-) attached to the nitrogen, indicating it could be a sulfonylamine or a similar derivative. Such functional groups are often involved in interactions with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 3: Additionally, the presence of aromatic rings (indicated by the benzene ring structures) and heterocycles (like the pyrrole ring in the acetylcholine receptor antagonist part) suggests potential interactions with receptors like muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (MChRs) and dopaminergic receptors (DRDs), which have complex ligand-binding sites.
Step 4: The overall structure of the molecule includes parts that resemble known ligands for several neurotransmitter systems and signaling pathways, such as those involving serotonin (HTRs), dopamine (DRDs), and acetylcholine (CHRs). This indicates the molecule might modulate these pathways.
Step 5: Given the molecular features described, the molecule is likely to interact with genes encoding receptors and enzymes involved in neurotransmission and signal transduction, including but not limited to: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4.
Summary of related genes: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4. Step 1: The molecule contains a nitrogen atom with a positive charge, indicating it could interact with receptors that bind to positively charged groups.
Step 2: The presence of a sulfonate group suggests potential interactions with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 3: Aromatic rings and heterocycles in the molecule indicate possible interactions with receptors such as MChRs and DRDs.
Step 4: The overall structure resembles known ligands for neurotransmitter systems, particularly those involving serotonin (HTRs) and dopamine (DRDs).
Step 5: Based on these structural features, the molecule is likely to interact with genes encoding receptors and enzymes involved in neurotransmission, specifically: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4. 
Summary of related genes: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4. Step 1: The molecule has a positively charged nitrogen atom, suggesting interaction with negatively charged receptors or ion channels.
Step 2: It contains a sulfonate group, which is common in molecules that interact with GPCRs.
Step 3: The aromatic and heterocyclic
