Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CC[NH+]1CC[NH+](Cc2ccc(N=c3nc(-c4cc(F)c5nc(C)n(C(C)C)c5c4)c(F)c[n-]3)nc2)CC1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide an explanation for why this relationship matters or its biological significance.
Step 1: The molecule contains a nitrogen atom with a positive charge (N+), which suggests it may interact with proteins that have binding sites for positively charged groups, such as certain receptors or ion channels.
Step 2: The molecule also has a benzene ring attached to the nitrogen atom, which could be involved in forming hydrogen bonds or hydrophobic interactions with proteins.
Step 3: The presence of multiple aromatic rings and functional groups like phenyl, methyl, and fluorine atoms indicates potential for binding to proteins involved in signal transduction pathways or receptor activation.
Step 4: The molecular structure hints at possible interaction with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) due to the presence of multiple aromatic rings and heteroatoms, which are common in GPCR ligands.
Step 5: Based on the structural features, the molecule may be related to genes encoding GPCRs, including HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6, which are involved in neurotransmitter signaling.
Related gene names: HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6
Note: The other genes listed do not appear to have a direct structural or functional relationship with the given molecule based on the provided information. However, the detailed analysis focuses on the molecule's potential interactions with GPCRs, which aligns with the related gene names identified. Step 1: The molecule contains a nitrogen atom with a positive charge (N+), which suggests it may interact with proteins that have binding sites for positively charged groups, such as certain receptors or ion channels.
Step 2: The molecule includes aromatic rings and functional groups like phenyl and methyl, which could form hydrogen bonds or engage in hydrophobic interactions with proteins.
Step 3: The presence of multiple heteroatoms (e.g., nitrogen, fluorine) indicates potential for binding to proteins involved in signal transduction pathways or receptor modulation.
Step 4: Given the structure, the molecule might interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) due to its aromatic rings and heteroatoms, which are common in GPCR ligands.
Step 5: Based on the structural features, the molecule may be related to genes encoding GPCRs, including HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6, which are involved in neurotransmitter signaling.
Related gene names: HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6
Step 3: The presence of multiple heteroatoms (
