Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCC(=O)NC(=S)Nc1ccc(S(=O)(=O)[N-]C(C)=O)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide an explanation for why this relationship might be important.
Step 1: The molecule contains a core structure known as a benzodiazepine derivative, which includes a six-membered ring with alternating single and double bonds (a benzene ring), and a diazepine ring fused to it. This core structure is often found in molecules that interact with receptors involved in neurotransmission.
Step 2: The presence of a carboxamide group (-CONH-) and a sulfonamide group (-SO2NH-) suggests the molecule could have modulatory effects on enzymes or receptors that interact with these functional groups. The carboxamide is common in drugs targeting G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), while the sulfonamide is associated with enzymes such as CYP2C9 and CYP2C19.
Step 3: The molecule also has a pyridine ring attached to the diazepine ring, which is a common feature in ligands for nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). This suggests the molecule may interact with nAChR subunits encoded by genes like CHRM1, CHRM3, and CHRM4.
Step 4: Additionally, the presence of a quinolone-like structure and a phenylalanine moiety indicates potential interactions with tyrosine kinases, such as those encoded by the LCK gene, which is involved in signal transduction pathways.
Step 5: Given the complex structure and the presence of multiple functional groups, the molecule likely interacts with multiple targets. However, based on the described features, the most directly related genes are: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, LCK.
Summary of related genes: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, LCK.
