Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCc1n[n-]c(=NC(=O)c2cc(-c3ccccc3)nn2-c2ccccc2)s1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule is a complex organic compound with a structure that includes a benzene ring, a nitrogen-containing heterocyclic group (indole), and a pyrrole ring, which are connected through various functional groups such as amide, ester, and amine functionalities.
Step 2: These structural features suggest that the molecule might interact with proteins involved in neurotransmission and signal transduction pathways due to the presence of amine and amide groups, which are common in ligands for receptors and enzymes.
Step 3: Specifically, the amide group could be indicative of a potential interaction with enzymes like CYP2D6, which metabolizes various drugs and endogenous compounds, and CYP3A4, another cytochrome P450 enzyme that plays a role in drug metabolism.
Step 4: Additionally, the presence of a nitrogen-containing heterocyclic group and amine functionalities might suggest interactions with receptors such as HTR2A (serotonin receptor), HTR2B, and HTR2C (subtypes of serotonin receptors), which are known to bind to various ligands including drugs.
Step 5: Therefore, based on the molecular structure, the molecule could potentially be related to several genes involved in neurotransmission and drug metabolism, specifically CYP2D6, CYP3A4, HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2D6, CYP3A4, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C. Step 1: The given molecule contains a benzene ring, an indole ring, and a pyrrole ring, indicating a complex aromatic structure.
Step 2: The presence of amide and amine functionalities suggests the molecule may interact with proteins involved in signaling pathways.
Step 3: The nitrogen-containing heterocyclic groups (indole and pyrrole) indicate possible interactions with receptors like G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 4: The amide group suggests potential binding to enzymes involved in drug metabolism, such as CYP enzymes.
Step 5: Based on these structural features, the molecule is likely related to genes encoding for serotonin receptors (HTR) and drug-metabolizing enzymes (CYP).
Summary of related gene names: CYP2D6, CYP3A4, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C. Step 1: The molecule has a benzene ring, an indole ring, and a pyrrole ring, suggesting it could interact with proteins involved in cellular signaling.
Step 2: The presence of amide and amine groups indicates potential binding to enzymes and receptors.
Step 3: Nitrogen-containing heterocycles (indole and pyrrole) imply possible interactions with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 4: The amide functionality points to potential interactions with enzymes like CYPs involved in drug metabolism.
Step 5: Based on its structure, the molecule is likely related to genes encoding serotonin receptors (HTR) and drug-metabolizing enzymes (CYP).
Summary of related gene names: CYP2D6, CYP3A4, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure
