Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCc1ccc(C(=O)C(C)C[NH+]2CCCCC2)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule is a complex organic compound containing multiple functional groups such as an amide (N-C=O), benzene rings, and a nitrogen atom with a positive charge. This structure suggests it could interact with proteins that have similar chemical properties or binding sites.
Step 2: Considering the presence of an amide group (-CO-NH+), this molecule might be able to bind to receptors or enzymes that have acidic amino acid residues nearby, which can form hydrogen bonds with the amide group. This interaction pattern is common for ligands binding to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and other membrane proteins.
Step 3: The nitrogen atom with a positive charge (+NH+) indicates potential binding to negatively charged regions within proteins, such as those found in ion channels or transporters. This feature could also indicate the molecule has affinity for proteins involved in signal transduction pathways.
Step 4: Given the structure and functional groups identified, this molecule may interact with several genes encoding receptors and enzymes, including but not limited to ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and DRD2. These genes encode adrenergic receptors, tyrosine kinase, and cytochrome P450 enzymes, respectively.
Step 5: Summary of related gene names: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, DRD2. 
These genes are involved in various physiological processes such as neurotransmission, drug metabolism, and cell signaling, making them plausible targets for this molecule based on its structural characteristics. Further biochemical assays would be necessary to confirm the specific interactions and biological relevance. 
The related gene names are: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, DRD2.
