Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCc1cc2cc(C(=O)Nc3ccc(F)cc3)sc2s1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure with multiple rings and functional groups, including a benzene ring, a pyrrole ring, and a carbonyl group (C=O). The presence of a benzene ring suggests potential interactions with aromatic amino acids in proteins, while the carbonyl group indicates it could act as an electrophile.
Step 2: The molecule contains a nitrogen atom within a heterocyclic ring, which could form hydrogen bonds or engage in other interactions with polar amino acid residues such as aspartate or glutamate. This feature may be particularly relevant for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which often have many hydrophilic and polar regions that interact with ligands.
Step 3: The presence of a carboxamide (N-C=O) group in the molecule could indicate its potential as an acetylcholine receptor antagonist, given that cholinergic receptors are often targeted by drugs containing this functional group. This aligns with the presence of several genes related to acetylcholine receptors among the provided list, such as CHRM1, CHRM3, and CHRM4.
Step 4: The molecule also has a phenolic group (aromatic alcohol) that could participate in hydrogen bonding or π-π stacking interactions with aromatic residues. This might suggest potential interactions with ion channels, particularly those containing voltage-gated calcium channels, which are known to have significant aromatic regions.
Step 5: Given the structural features described, the molecule is likely to interact with several genes involved in neurotransmission and signal transduction pathways, such as those encoding GPCRs and ion channels. Specifically, the related gene names include: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, KCNH2, LCK, and OPKR1. These genes encode receptors and channels that are crucial for various physiological processes, including pain modulation, mood regulation, and synaptic transmission. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure with multiple rings and functional groups, including a benzene ring, a pyrrole ring, and a carbonyl group (C=O). This complexity suggests it could interact with a variety of proteins through different mechanisms.
Step 2: The presence of a nitrogen atom within a heterocyclic ring indicates potential for hydrogen bonding, which could be important for binding to proteins like enzymes or receptors.
Step 3: The carboxamide (N-C=O) group suggests the molecule could act as an inhibitor or modulator of enzymes, particularly those involved in metabolism or signaling pathways.
Step 4: The phenolic group (aromatic alcohol) in the molecule could participate in hydrogen bonding or π-π stacking, indicating potential interactions with proteins containing aromatic residues, such as receptors or ion channels.
Step 5: Based on the structural features, the molecule is likely to interact with several genes involved in neurotransmission and signal transduction, such as GPCRs and ion channels. Related gene names include: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, KCNH2, LCK, and OPRK1.
Summary of related gene names: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, HTR1A, HTR2A
