Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCC[NH+](CCC)C1CCc2cccc([O-])c2C1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure containing multiple benzene rings, amine groups, and a carboxylate group. The presence of an amine group (NH+) suggests basicity and potential for forming hydrogen bonds. The benzene rings indicate aromaticity, which can contribute to hydrophobic interactions and stabilization.
Step 2: Considering the gene features, the molecule's structure may be relevant to several receptors and enzymes involved in signal transduction and drug metabolism. Benzene rings are common in ligands for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which include ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4. These genes encode receptors that bind to various neurotransmitters and hormones, modulating cellular responses.
Step 3: Additionally, the presence of a carboxylate group might interact with proteins involved in signaling pathways. For instance, CACNA1H encodes a voltage-gated calcium channel, which could potentially interact with the carboxylate group due to its hydrophilic nature. This interaction could affect calcium flux and downstream signaling cascades.
Step 4: The molecule also contains a nitrogen atom in an amide form, which could participate in hydrogen bonding. This feature is relevant to the binding of small molecules to enzymes like CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4, which are involved in the metabolism of drugs and xenobiotics. Hydrogen bonding can influence the binding affinity and specificity of these enzymes.
Step 5: Lastly, the overall structure of the molecule, with its aromatic rings and polar functional groups, could potentially interact with membrane-bound proteins and ion channels. This includes KDR, which encodes a tyrosine kinase receptor, and KCNH2, which encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel. Such interactions could modulate the activity of these proteins and their role in signal transduction.
Summary of related gene names: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, CACNA1H, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, KDR, KCNH2.
