Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCCC[NH+]1C(=O)C[NH+](CCc2ccccc2)C(=O)C1c1ccc(OC)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide an explanation for why this information might be useful.
Step 1: The molecule contains a complex structure including amine groups and carboxylate groups. The presence of amine groups suggests potential interactions with receptors that have amine binding sites, such as some G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 2: The molecule also includes a benzene ring system and a pyrrole ring, which are common structural motifs in drugs that interact with enzymes involved in drug metabolism, such as CYP enzymes.
Step 3: The presence of a quinoline-like structure in the molecule could indicate a potential interaction with genes involved in neurotransmitter signaling pathways, specifically those related to dopaminergic receptors like DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4.
Step 4: The overall complexity and functional groups of the molecule suggest it may interact with multiple genes involved in various biological processes, but the primary focus is on genes involved in drug metabolism and receptor signaling.
Step 5: Based on the structure and functional groups, the most likely related genes are CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4. Step 1: The molecule contains a complex structure including amine groups and carboxylate groups. The presence of amine groups suggests potential interactions with receptors that have amine binding sites, such as some G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 2: The molecule includes a benzene ring system and a pyrrole ring, which are common structural motifs in drugs that interact with enzymes involved in drug metabolism, such as CYP enzymes.
Step 3: The presence of a quinoline-like structure in the molecule indicates a potential interaction with genes involved in neurotransmitter signaling pathways, particularly those related to dopaminergic receptors like DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4. 
(Note: The summary remains unchanged from the previous response as it already accurately reflects the identified related genes based on the molecule's structure.)
