Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCc1cccc([O-])c1C(=O)[O-], and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule is a linear chain of carbon atoms (12 carbons) with an ester group (-COOR) attached to the second carbon and a negatively charged oxygen atom (-O-) attached to the 10th carbon. This structure suggests that the molecule could be a fatty acid derivative with a carboxylate headgroup.
Step 2: The presence of a negatively charged oxygen atom (-O-) indicates that the molecule is likely to interact with positively charged regions, such as the extracellular domains of ion channels and receptors, which are often involved in neurotransmission and other cellular signaling pathways.
Step 3: Given the molecular structure, this compound might interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), particularly those that have a negatively charged region in their extracellular domain, such as adrenergic receptors (ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2) and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4). These receptors are involved in various physiological processes, including neurotransmission, and their activation can lead to changes in intracellular signaling pathways.
Step 4: Additionally, the molecule could potentially interact with receptors that have a carboxylate-binding site, such as the cannabinoid receptor 1 (CNR1), which binds endocannabinoids and phytocannabinoids. This interaction might modulate the activity of the receptor, leading to changes in downstream signaling pathways.
Step 5: The molecule may also interact with enzymes that metabolize drugs, such as CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, which are involved in the biotransformation of xenobiotics and endogenous compounds. This interaction could affect the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the molecule.
Summary of related gene names: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, CNR1, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6. Step 1: The molecule is a linear chain of carbon atoms (12 carbons) with an ester group (-COOR) attached to the second carbon and a negatively charged oxygen atom (-O-) attached to the 10th carbon. This structure suggests that the molecule could be a fatty acid derivative with a carboxylate headgroup.
Step 3: Given the molecular structure, this compound might interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), particularly those that have a negatively charged region in their extracellular domain, such as adrenergic receptors (ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2) and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4).
Step 4: The molecule could also interact with cannabinoid receptor 1 (CNR1), which binds endocannabinoids and phytocannabinoids, potentially modulating its activity.
Step 5: The molecule may interact with enzymes that metabolize drugs, such as CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and C
