Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCCc1nc2ccccc2n1CCOc1ccccc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided SMILES string represents a complex organic molecule containing multiple rings, including benzene rings and a pyrrole ring. This structure suggests that the molecule may interact with proteins involved in various cellular processes due to its aromatic nature.
Step 2: The presence of a carbonyl group (CO) and an amide group (-CONH-) indicates potential for hydrogen bonding and interactions with proteins that have amino acid residues capable of forming hydrogen bonds. These functional groups are particularly relevant for enzymes and receptors that have hydrophilic pockets for binding.
Step 3: The molecule's overall shape and size, characterized by the presence of multiple rings and functional groups, suggest it could fit into and interact with protein binding sites that have similar topologies. Such interactions are common in drug molecules targeting G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and other membrane-bound receptors.
Step 4: Considering the potential interactions described, several genes listed are known to code for proteins involved in GPCR signaling pathways or are enzymes that might interact with small molecules. Specifically, DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6 encode for various subtypes of serotonin receptors, which are GPCRs and could be targets for this molecule.
Step 5: Additionally, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19 are enzymes involved in the metabolism of drugs, and their interaction with this molecule would be expected if it were a substrate or inhibitor. This further supports the possibility that the molecule could be related to these genes.
Summary of related gene names: DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19.
