Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCN(C(=O)CSc1nc2cc(C(=O)OC)ccc2c(=O)n1Cc1ccco1)c1cccc(C)c1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide any other information.
Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring, a pyrrole ring, and multiple amine groups. These structural features suggest potential interactions with receptors and enzymes that bind aromatic compounds and amines.
Step 2: The presence of an acetyl group and ester bonds indicates the molecule could interact with enzymes involved in acetylation and esterification processes, such as CYP2C9 and CYP2C19.
Step 3: The cyclic structure with nitrogen atoms suggests possible interactions with ion channels (CACNA1H) and G-protein coupled receptors (such as ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2).
Step 4: The molecule's complex structure with multiple functional groups may influence its binding affinity for various receptor sites, including those found in genes like DRD2, HTR2A, and HTR2B, which are associated with neurotransmitter systems.
Step 5: Given the molecule's diverse functional groups and potential interactions with various proteins, it is most likely to be related to genes involved in neurotransmission and signal transduction pathways, specifically ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, DRD2, HTR2A, and HTR2B.
Summary of related genes: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, DRD2, HTR2A, HTR2B. Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring, a pyrrole ring, and multiple amine groups. These structural features suggest potential interactions with receptors and enzymes that bind aromatic compounds and amines.
Summary of related genes: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, DRD2, HTR2A, HTR2B. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure with multiple functional groups, suggesting it can interact with various biological targets.
Step 2: The presence of aromatic rings and amine groups implies potential interactions with enzymes and receptors that recognize these moieties, particularly those involved in neurotransmission.
Step 3: The molecule’s structure includes features that might interact with ion channels and G-protein coupled receptors, such as ADRA1D, ADRA2B, and ADRB2.
