Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCOC(=O)Cn1c(C[NH+](Cc2ccccc2)Cc2ccccc2)nc2c1c(=O)[n-]c(=O)n2C, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not generate any examples.
Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring system with an amide group attached to it, which is characteristic of many drugs that interact with receptors or enzymes. This structural feature suggests potential interactions with genes encoding drug targets such as receptors or enzymes.
Step 2: The presence of a nitrile group (-CN) and a tertiary amine (-N+), along with the amide group, indicates the molecule could be a modulator of ion channels or neurotransmitter receptors. This is particularly relevant for genes encoding ion channels or receptors involved in neurotransmission.
Step 3: The molecule also has a quinoline-like structure with a nitrogen atom, which could indicate potential interactions with enzymes involved in drug metabolism or transport. This points towards genes like CYP2D6, CYP2C19, and SLC6A4, which are known to be involved in metabolizing and transporting drugs.
Step 4: Given the presence of a phenylalanine-like moiety and a carboxamide group, the molecule may have affinity for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). Genes such as HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C, which encode serotonin receptors, could be relevant due to their role in signal transduction pathways involving GPCRs.
Step 5: The overall structure of the molecule, with its amide and aromatic moieties, suggests potential interactions with kinases or other proteins involved in signaling pathways. Genes like PTGS1 and HRH1, which are involved in prostaglandin synthesis and histamine signaling respectively, could be related based on the molecular structure.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2D6, CYP2C19, SLC6A4, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, PTGS1, HRH1.
