Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCOC(=O)c1ncn2c1C[NH+](C)C(=O)c1cc(F)ccc1-2, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule contains several functional groups such as an amide (C=O), a carboxylic acid (COOH), and aromatic rings, which are common in many drugs that interact with receptors and transport proteins. The presence of a carboxamide group (-CONH-) and an ester group (-COOR-) suggests potential interactions with enzymes involved in drug metabolism.
Step 2: The aromatic ring system, particularly the phenyl groups attached to nitrogen atoms, indicates possible interactions with receptors that contain hydrophobic binding pockets, such as G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). This structural feature aligns well with the known ligand-binding sites of some of the listed genes, including DRD2 (Dopamine receptor D2), HTR1A (Serotonin receptor 1A), HTR2A (Serotonin receptor 2A), HTR2B (Serotonin receptor 2B), HTR2C (Serotonin receptor 2C), and HTR6 (Serotonin receptor 6).
Step 3: The presence of a quaternary ammonium group (N+), which is positively charged, could facilitate interaction with negatively charged regions of proteins, such as ion channels or transporters. This could be relevant to the function of genes like KCNH2 (Voltage-gated potassium channel subfamily H member 2), which encodes a cardiac potassium channel, and OPRK1 (Opioid receptor kappa 1), which encodes an opioid receptor.
Step 4: The presence of fluorine atoms (-F) in the molecule might indicate a specific pharmacological profile, such as enhanced blood-brain barrier penetration or increased stability against metabolic degradation. This could be relevant to the function of genes like CYP2C9 and CYP2C19, which encode cytochrome P450 enzymes involved in drug metabolism.
Step 5: The overall structure of the molecule, with its combination of hydrophobic and polar regions, suggests it could act as a ligand for multiple targets, including GPCRs and ion channels. Given the diverse range of receptors and transporters encoded by the listed genes, this molecule likely interacts with more than one gene.
Summary of related genes: DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, KCNH2, OPRK1, CYP2C9, CYP2C19. Step 1: The molecule contains several functional groups such as an amide (C=O), a carboxylic acid (COOH), and aromatic rings, which are common in many drugs that interact with receptors and transport proteins.
Step 2: The aromatic ring system, particularly the phenyl groups attached to nitrogen atoms, indicates possible interactions with receptors that contain hydrophobic binding pockets, such as G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 3: The presence of a quaternary ammonium group (N+), which is positively charged, could facilitate interaction with negatively charged regions of proteins, such as ion channels or transporters.
Step 4: The presence of fluorine atoms (-F) in the molecule might indicate a specific pharmacological profile, such as enhanced blood-brain barrier penetration or increased stability against metabolic degradation.
Step 5: The overall structure of the molecule, with its combination of
