Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCOC(=O)C1CCC[NH+](S(=O)(=O)c2ccccc2)C1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not generate any other text.
Step 1: The molecule contains a phenolic group (-OH) attached to a benzene ring, which is characteristic of compounds that can interact with estrogen receptors. This suggests potential interaction with ESR1 (Estrogen Receptor Alpha), a key gene involved in estrogen signaling.
Step 2: The molecule also includes a pyridine ring system, which can form hydrogen bonds and potentially interact with various receptors. This feature might relate to the gene CYP2D6, which encodes an enzyme involved in drug metabolism and can be influenced by small molecules with aromatic structures.
Step 3: The presence of a carboxamide group (-CONH2) in the molecule indicates it could act as a ligand for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). Specifically, this group may interact with HTR2A (Serotonin Receptor 2A), a gene encoding a receptor that binds serotonin and is involved in mood regulation.
Step 4: The molecule’s overall structure, including its aromatic rings and amide functionalities, could influence the activity of enzymes like those encoded by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, which are involved in the metabolism of drugs and xenobiotics.
Step 5: Given the molecule's complex structure and the presence of multiple functional groups, it may also have interactions with kinases such as LCK, which is involved in signal transduction pathways.
Summary of related gene names: ESR1, CYP2D6, HTR2A, CYP2C19, CYP3A4, LCK. Step 1: The molecule contains a phenolic group (-OH) attached to a benzene ring, which is characteristic of compounds that can interact with estrogen receptors. This suggests potential interaction with ESR1 (Estrogen Receptor Alpha), a key gene involved in estrogen signaling.
Summary of related gene names: ESR1, CYP2D6, HTR2A, CYP2C19, CYP3A4, LCK.
