Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCOC(=O)CCCCC(=O)c1[n-]c(=O)[n-]c1Cn1cnc2ccccc21, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule has a complex structure including a benzene ring, an amide group, and several nitrogen atoms. Notably, it contains a pyrrolidine ring (indicated by n- notation) and a phenylalanine-like moiety (indicated by C(=O)C). These structural features suggest that the molecule could interact with proteins that have similar binding sites.
Step 2: The presence of the amide group and the nitrogen atoms, especially those involved in the pyrrolidine ring, indicates that this molecule might be a ligand or inhibitor for enzymes or receptors that have amino acid binding pockets. This feature is particularly relevant to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and other membrane-bound receptors.
Step 3: Among the listed genes, several are associated with GPCRs or enzymes that could potentially interact with a molecule like the one described. Specifically, ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, and CYP2D6 are known to encode for receptors or enzymes that could bind to molecules with the described structural features.
Step 4: The gene CYP2D6 encodes for a cytochrome P450 enzyme which metabolizes many drugs and xenobiotics. The presence of multiple nitrogen atoms and an amide group suggests that the molecule may be a substrate for CYP2D6, indicating a potential metabolic interaction.
Step 5: Given the above considerations, the molecule is most likely related to the following genes: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, and CYP2D6. These genes encode proteins that either directly interact with small molecules due to their structural features or are involved in the metabolism of such molecules. 
Summary of Related Genes: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, CYP2D6.
