Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCOC(=O)[NH+]1CCN(c2nc(-c3ccco3)cc(C(F)(F)F)n2)CC1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided molecule has a complex structure that includes a benzene ring, an amide group, and a positively charged nitrogen atom. The benzene ring and amide group are common features in many drugs that interact with receptors or enzymes. This suggests the molecule could potentially interact with proteins involved in signaling pathways or metabolic processes.
Step 2: The positively charged nitrogen (ammonium) indicates the molecule may have cationic properties, which could allow it to bind to negatively charged sites on proteins, such as ion channels or receptors. This property aligns with the involvement of several genes in ion channel function or receptor activity.
Step 3: The presence of fluorine atoms in the molecule (indicated by "F") is characteristic of certain drug classes, particularly those designed to modulate G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which often include substituents like fluorine for fine-tuning binding affinity and selectivity.
Step 4: Given the structural features mentioned, the molecule might interact with genes encoding for ion channels and receptors, such as ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, and DRD2. These genes encode for alpha-adrenergic receptors, the ABL tyrosine kinase, and dopamine receptors, respectively, all of which are known to be targets for molecules with similar structures.
Step 5: Considering the potential interactions based on the molecule’s structure, the related genes include: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, and DRD2. 
Summary of Related Genes: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, DRD2.
