Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCOc1cc(N)c(Cl)cc1C(=O)NCC1C[NH+](Cc2ccc(F)cc2)CCO1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide an explanation for why this relationship might be clinically relevant.
Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring system, which is common in many drug molecules. This structural feature can interact with various receptors and enzymes involved in signal transduction and metabolism.
Step 2: The presence of a pyrrole ring, specifically the N-containing heterocyclic ring, suggests potential interactions with enzymes such as cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, which are involved in the metabolism of drugs. This indicates that the molecule could be metabolized by CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, which are listed among the given genes.
Step 3: The molecule also includes a quinoline-like structure, which can potentially interact with ion channels and receptors. This feature is relevant to genes like KCNH2, which encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel subunit, and HTR2A, which encodes a serotonin receptor.
Step 4: The presence of a phenolic hydroxyl group and a carboxylic acid group in the molecule may indicate its ability to act as an agonist or antagonist at G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are encoded by genes such as DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4.
Step 5: The overall structure of the molecule, including its functional groups and rings, suggests it could be a substrate for or inhibitor of enzymes involved in the arachidonic acid pathway, such as PTGS1, which encodes COX-1, a key enzyme in prostaglandin biosynthesis.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, KCNH2, HTR2A, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, PTGS1. 
Note: The gene SLC6A4, which codes for a neurotransmitter transporter, could also be relevant due to the presence of amine groups in the molecule, but it is not directly mentioned in the provided list. The gene SLC6A2, coding for another neurotransmitter transporter, is also not listed but could be considered based on similar reasoning. However, these are not included in the summary as they were not part of the initial gene list provided.
