Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCOc1ccc2c(=O)c(Oc3ccccc3)c(C)oc2c1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided SMILES string describes a complex molecule with a benzene ring system containing an ester group (-COO-) and an amine group (-NH2), as well as hydroxyl (-OH) and methyl (-CH3) groups attached. This structure suggests that the molecule could be a derivative of an aromatic compound, possibly a drug-like molecule due to its functional groups.
Step 2: The presence of an ester group and an amine group in the molecule indicates it could act as a prodrug or a ligand for receptors or enzymes that interact with these functional groups. Esters are often used in drug design as they can be metabolized into active compounds by enzymes such as esterases.
Step 3: The amine group might indicate the molecule could interact with receptors that have amino acid residues in their binding sites, such as G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) or ion channels. Given the presence of the benzene ring and the possibility of substituents like methyl and hydroxyl groups, this molecule could potentially bind to or modulate the activity of GPCRs.
Step 4: Considering the possible interactions with GPCRs, the related genes include those involved in the GPCR signaling pathway, such as DRD2 (Dopamine receptor D2), DRD3 (Dopamine receptor D3), and DRD4 (Dopamine receptor D4). These genes encode receptors that could be directly targeted by the molecule due to its potential to bind to them.
Step 5: Additionally, the molecule might also interact with enzymes involved in the metabolism of drugs, such as those encoded by CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6, which are involved in the metabolism of various drugs including some that act on GPCRs. This interaction could influence the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the molecule.
Summary of related gene names: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6. 
These genes are likely to be influenced by the molecule's structure and potential interactions within the body.
