Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCOC(=O)[NH+]1CCC(=C2c3ccc(Cl)cc3CCc3cccnc32)CC1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given SMILES string represents a complex organic molecule containing multiple functional groups such as an amide (-CO-NH-), an ester (C=O), and aromatic rings. This structure suggests that the molecule could interact with proteins involved in signal transduction pathways or enzymes due to its diverse functional groups.
Step 2: Analyzing the structure for potential interactions with specific genes, we see that the molecule's presence of an amine group (-NH+) and aromatic rings might suggest it could interact with receptors that have similar chemical features. For example, the amine group could potentially bind to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 3: Considering the gene list provided, several GPCRs are listed, including CHRM1 (Cholinergic receptor muscarinic M1), CHRM3 (Cholinergic receptor muscarinic M3), and CHRM4 (Cholinergic receptor muscarinic M4). These receptors are known to interact with acetylcholine and other small molecules, which share structural similarities with the amine group present in the molecule.
Step 4: Additionally, the molecule's structure includes a carboxylic acid group (-COOH), which could interact with ion channels or enzymes that require acidic functionalities. Notably, KCNH2 (Potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily H member 2) is listed, which is involved in cardiac repolarization and may be influenced by molecules with carboxylic acid groups.
Step 5: Based on the above analysis, the molecule is most likely to be related to the following genes: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, and KCNH2. These genes are directly relevant due to their interaction capabilities with molecules having amine and carboxylic acid functionalities.
Summary of related gene names: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, KCNH2.
