Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCOc1ccc(C(CC(=O)[O-])NC(=O)COc2ccccc2)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule contains a complex structure with multiple rings, including a benzene ring and a pyridine ring, which are common in many drugs and ligands that interact with receptors and enzymes. The presence of these aromatic rings suggests potential interactions with proteins containing aromatic amino acid residues.
Step 2: The molecule also includes a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) and an amide group (-CONH2), both of which are known to form hydrogen bonds with protein structures, particularly with acidic and basic residues. These functional groups are often found in ligands that bind to ion channels, G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), and other membrane proteins.
Step 3: Additionally, the molecule has a quinone-like structure (CC(=O)[O-]), which is characteristic of compounds that can act as electron donors or acceptors and may interact with proteins involved in redox reactions, such as enzymes like cytochromes P450 (CYPs). This feature is relevant to genes encoding CYP enzymes, such as CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6.
Step 4: The presence of a benzodiazepine-like structure (NC(=O)CO) suggests potential interactions with GABA receptors, which are associated with several neurological disorders and are targets for various psychiatric medications. Genes like HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6, which encode serotonin receptors, might be indirectly affected due to their structural similarity to benzodiazepines.
Step 5: Lastly, the overall structure of the molecule indicates it could potentially interact with ion channels, given its size and hydrophobic/hydrophilic balance. Ion channels are often targeted by drugs that modulate calcium and sodium influx/efflux, such as those encoded by KCNH2 and HRH1.
Summary of related gene names: CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, KCNH2, HRH1.
