Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCOC(=O)Nc1ccc2c(c1)N(C(=O)CC[NH+]1CCOCC1)c1ccccc1S2, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure containing multiple functional groups such as an amide (N=C=O), a carboxylic acid (O=C-OH), a phenolic group (OH attached to a benzene ring), and a thioether (S-C). These functional groups suggest that the molecule could interact with proteins involved in signal transduction pathways and drug metabolism.
Step 2: Considering the presence of an amide and carboxylic acid, the molecule may be able to bind to ion channels and receptors. For instance, the amide and carboxylic acid functionalities are common in ligands for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and ion channels. Specifically, the thioether group might interact with cysteine residues in these proteins, which is a common site for binding of certain drugs and signaling molecules.
Step 3: The molecule's potential interaction with GPCRs is supported by its structural features. GPCRs are known to have seven transmembrane helices, and their extracellular domains often contain hydrophobic pockets where ligands can bind. The molecule's phenolic and amide groups could fit into such a pocket, potentially modulating receptor activity.
Step 4: Given the identified structural features, the molecule is likely to interact with several genes encoding GPCRs and enzymes involved in neurotransmission and drug metabolism. This includes genes like DRD2 (dopamine receptor D2), HTR2A (serotonin receptor 2A), and CYP2D6 (cytochrome P450 2D6).
Step 5: Based on the detailed analysis, the related genes include: DRD2, HTR2A, and CYP2D6.
Summary of related gene names:
- DRD2
- HTR2A
- CYP2D6 Step 1: The molecule contains a complex structure with functional groups like amide (N=C=O), carboxylic acid (O=C-OH), phenolic (OH attached to a benzene ring), and thioether (S-C). These groups suggest potential interactions with proteins involved in signal transduction and drug metabolism.
Step 2: The amide and carboxylic acid groups indicate the molecule could interact with ion channels and GPCRs, as these functional groups are common in ligands for these proteins.
Step 3: The phenolic group suggests the molecule might interact with proteins containing cysteine residues, particularly in ion channels and GPCRs, due to hydrogen bonding and thioether interactions.
Step 4: The molecule’s structure supports interactions with GPCRs, especially those involved in neurotransmission and signaling pathways.
Step 5: Based on the structural analysis, the molecule is likely to interact with genes encoding GPCRs and enzymes involved in neurotransmission, specifically DRD2, HTR2A, and CYP2D6.
- CYP2D6
Note: The remaining genes listed do not appear to have a direct structural relationship with the molecule based on the provided information. They are not included in the summary. If additional information about these genes' functions were provided, a more comprehensive analysis could be conducted. However, based solely on the molecule's structure, the primary focus is
