Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CCSc1n[n-]c(=NC(=O)CSc2nc3c(cc2C#N)CCCC3)s1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not generate any other text.
Step 1: The molecule contains a tricyclic structure with a pyrrole ring, which is characteristic of several known ligands for the μ-opioid receptor (MOR). This suggests a potential interaction with OPRK1, the gene encoding the μ-opioid receptor.
Step 2: The presence of a nitrile group (-CN) and a cyano group (-C#N) indicates the molecule could have inhibitory effects on enzymes involved in drug metabolism, such as CYP2D6, which metabolizes many drugs including opioids.
Step 3: The aromatic rings and nitrogen-containing heterocycles suggest the molecule might interact with ion channels or receptors that are sensitive to these structural elements, such as KCNH2, which encodes the hERG potassium channel.
Step 4: The presence of a carboxamide group (-CONH2) and an amide bond (-CO-NH-) implies the molecule could potentially act as an agonist or antagonist for receptors like DRD2, which encodes the D2 dopamine receptor.
Step 5: Given the structural complexity and the presence of multiple functional groups, the molecule may also interact with other receptors and enzymes, such as ESR1, which encodes the estrogen receptor α, suggesting broader pharmacological activity.
Summary of related gene names: OPRK1, CYP2D6, KCNH2, DRD2, ESR1 Step 1: The molecule contains a tricyclic structure with a pyrrole ring, which is characteristic of several known ligands for the μ-opioid receptor (MOR). This suggests a potential interaction with OPRK1, the gene encoding the μ-opioid receptor.
Summary of related gene names: OPRK1, CYP2D6, KCNH2, DRD2, ESR1 Step 1: The molecule has a tricyclic structure with a pyrrole ring, indicating possible interaction with the μ-opioid receptor (encoded by OPRK1).
Step 2: Presence of -CN and -C#N groups suggests potential inhibition of CYP2D6.
Step 3: Aromatic and nitrogen-containing heterocycles point towards possible interactions with KCNH2 (hERG potassium channel).
Step 4: Carboxamide and amide groups suggest potential
