Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CN(c1ccc(NC(=O)Nc2ccc(OC(F)(F)F)cc2)cc1)c1cc[n-]c(=Nc2cccc(S(N)(=O)=O)c2)n1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule has a complex structure including a benzene ring, a pyrrole ring, a morpholine ring, and a piperidine ring, along with several substituents such as a trifluoromethyl group, an ethoxy group, and a sulfoxide group. These structural features suggest that the molecule may interact with proteins involved in signal transduction pathways, as these proteins often have similar functional groups for ligand binding.
Step 2: The presence of a sulfonamide (N-C(=O)-S) group in the molecule indicates potential interactions with enzymes or receptors that recognize this functional group. This feature is particularly relevant to genes encoding drug-metabolizing enzymes like CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, which are known to be involved in the metabolism of many drugs containing sulfonamides.
Step 3: The molecule also contains a quinoline ring, which could potentially interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). Among the listed genes, DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4 encode dopamine receptors, which are GPCRs. The quinoline ring might allow the molecule to act as a partial agonist or antagonist of these receptors.
Step 4: The presence of a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) suggests the molecule could have effects on ion channels or other proteins that bind acidic ligands. This is relevant to KCNH2, which encodes the hERG potassium channel. The carboxylic acid could interact with the protein's binding site, affecting its function.
Step 5: Lastly, the molecule's overall structure and functional groups indicate it could have effects on signaling pathways involving nuclear receptors. For example, CYP1A2, which is involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics, and PPARG, which regulates lipid metabolism, might be influenced by the molecule due to their involvement in these pathways.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, KCNH2, CYP1A2, PPARG.
