Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cn1c(C(=O)[O-])cc2cc(Br)ccc21, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide an explanation for why this is relevant.
Step 1: The molecule has a benzene ring with a cyano group (-CN), a carboxylate group (-COOH), and a bromine atom attached to it. This structure suggests potential interactions with proteins involved in neurotransmission and receptor binding.
Step 2: The presence of a carboxylate group could indicate that the molecule might interact with receptors or enzymes that have acidic functional groups, such as G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) or ion channels.
Step 3: The bromine atom could participate in halogen bonding or contribute to the overall lipophilicity of the molecule, which may influence its interaction with membrane-bound proteins like receptors or ion channels.
Step 4: Considering the pattern of the molecule, it might interact with genes encoding for GPCRs, including DRD2, HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C, as well as ion channel genes like KCNH2.
Step 5: The molecule also has potential to interact with genes involved in neurotransmitter metabolism or signaling pathways, such as HTR1A, PTGS1, and SLC6A4.
Summary of related gene names: DRD2, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR1A, PTGS1, SLC6A4
Note: The other genes listed are not directly related based on the molecular structure described. Step 1: The molecule has a benzene ring with a cyano group (-CN), a carboxylate group (-COOH), and a bromine atom attached to it. This structure suggests potential interactions with proteins involved in neurotransmission and receptor binding.
Step 2: The presence of a carboxylate group could indicate that the molecule might interact with receptors or enzymes that have acidic functional groups, such as G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 4: Considering the pattern of the molecule, it might interact with genes encoding for GPCRs, including HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6.
Step 5: The molecule also has potential to interact with genes involved in neurotransmitter metabolism or signaling pathways, such as HTR1A and SLC6A4.
Summary of related gene names: HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, HTR1A, SLC6A4
Note: The other genes listed are not directly related based on the molecular structure described. Step 1: The molecule contains a carboxylate group (-COOH) and a bromine atom (-Br), suggesting potential interactions with proteins that have acidic or polar functional groups, such as ion channels or receptors.
Step 2: The presence of a benzene ring with a cyano group (-CN) indicates a rigid planar structure, which could allow for specific binding to transmembrane proteins like G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 3: The bromine atom could contribute to the molecule's lipophilicity, facilitating its interaction with membrane-bound proteins.
Step 4: Given the structure, the molecule may interact with genes encoding for G
