Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cn1c(SCC(=O)Nc2sccc2C#N)nnc1-c1ccccc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule has a complex structure with multiple functional groups such as a thioether (S-C), an amide (C=O-N), a nitrile (C#N), and aromatic rings. These features suggest the molecule could be involved in interactions with proteins that have similar chemical functional groups or binding sites.
Step 2: Analyzing the functional groups, the amide and nitrile groups are common in drugs that interact with enzymes and receptors. For instance, the amide group can form hydrogen bonds and act as a substrate for enzymes, while the nitrile group can participate in nucleophilic substitution reactions.
Step 3: Considering the gene features, several genes encode enzymes and receptors that might interact with the molecule due to their functional groups. For example, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 are enzymes involved in drug metabolism and could potentially interact with the amide and nitrile groups. Additionally, ABL1 encodes a tyrosine kinase that might interact with the thioether group.
Step 4: Other genes like DRD2, HTR2A, and HTR2B encode G-protein coupled receptors which often bind to ligands with specific functional groups. The presence of aromatic rings in the molecule suggests it could interact with these receptors through π-π stacking interactions.
Step 5: Based on the structural analysis, the related genes include CYP2C9, CYP2C19, ABL1, DRD2, HTR2A, and HTR2B. These genes are involved in drug metabolism, protein kinases, and neurotransmitter receptor functions, respectively.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2C9, CYP2C19, ABL1, DRD2, HTR2A, HTR2B. Step 1: The given molecule has a complex structure with multiple functional groups such as a thioether (S-C), an amide (C=O-N), a nitrile (C#N), and aromatic rings. These features suggest the molecule could be involved in interactions with proteins that have similar chemical functional groups or binding sites.
Step 5: Based on the structural analysis, the related genes include CYP2C9, CYP2C19, ABL1, DRD2, HTR2A, and HTR2
