Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: Cn1cnc(-c2cc3nccc(Oc4ccc(NC(=S)NC(=O)Cc5ccccc5)cc4F)c3s2)c1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule provided has a complex structure with several functional groups including a benzene ring, a pyrrole ring, a nitrile group, an oxygen atom in a hydroxyl group, and a sulfur-containing heterocycle (thiophene). This structure suggests that it might interact with proteins involved in various biological processes, such as enzyme activity and receptor binding.
Step 2: The presence of a thiophene ring and a cyano group (-CN) in the molecule indicates potential interactions with enzymes that contain cysteine residues, such as those involved in detoxification pathways. This could be relevant to genes like CYP2D6, which encodes an enzyme involved in drug metabolism, and CYP3A4, another key enzyme in the metabolism of many drugs.
Step 3: The molecule also contains a nitrogen atom with a double bond (N=), which could form hydrogen bonds or other types of interactions with amino acid residues containing polar side chains, such as aspartic acid, glutamic acid, or serine. This might be particularly relevant to genes encoding G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), such as ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, and CHRM4, which are known to bind to various ligands including small molecules with similar functional groups.
Step 4: Given the presence of a nitrile group and the overall structure, this molecule could potentially inhibit enzymes that utilize nitriles or have a similar mechanism of action. This might be relevant to the gene CYP2C19, which encodes an enzyme involved in the metabolism of several drugs and xenobiotics, and may be inhibited by compounds with nitrile groups.
Step 5: The molecule’s structure does not directly suggest strong relationships with other genes listed, such as ABCB1, EGFR, or PTGS1, unless there are specific studies showing such interactions, which are not evident from the structure alone.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2D6, CYP3A4, ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, CYP2C19. These genes are primarily associated with drug metabolism and receptor binding, which aligns with the molecular structure and functional groups present in the given molecule.
