Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CNC(=O)c1cc(Oc2ccc(NC(=O)Nc3ccc(Cl)c(C(F)(F)F)c3)c(F)c2)ccn1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide an explanation for why this is relevant.
Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring system with a carboxamide group (-CONH2), which is characteristic of drugs that can act as ligands for various receptors and enzymes.
Step 2: The presence of multiple functional groups such as amide, hydroxyl, and fluorine substituents suggests the molecule may interact with proteins involved in signal transduction pathways and drug metabolism.
Step 3: The complex aromatic and heterocyclic structures indicate potential interactions with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are often targets for drugs due to their role in cellular signaling.
Step 4: Given the pattern of substituents and the overall structure, the molecule could be a ligand for receptors like DRD2 (Dopamine receptor D2), HTR2A (Serotonin receptor 5-HT1A), and CHRM1 (Cholinergic receptor muscarinic M1).
Step 5: Based on the structural features and potential interaction sites, the related genes include DRD2, HTR2A, and CHRM1. 
Related genes: DRD2, HTR2A, CHRM1 Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring system with a carboxamide group (-CONH2), which is characteristic of drugs that can act as ligands for various receptors and enzymes.
Step 5: Based on the structural features and potential interaction sites, the related genes include DRD2, HTR2A, and CHRM1.
Related genes: DRD2, HTR2A, CHRM1 Step 1: The molecule has a benzene ring with a carboxamide group, suggesting potential receptor binding.
Step 2: The presence of hydroxyl and fluorine groups indicates possible interactions with enzymes or receptors.
Step 3: Complex aromatic structures suggest potential interactions with GPCRs.
Step 4: The structure hints at possible interactions with dopamine, serotonin, and cholinergic receptors.
Step 5: Related genes include DRD2, HTR2A, and CHRM1.
Related genes: DRD2, HTR2A, CHRM1 Step 1: The molecule features a benzene ring with a carboxamide group, indicating potential receptor binding.
Step 2: Hydroxyl and fluorine groups suggest interactions with enzymes or receptors.
Step 3: Complex aromatic structures imply possible interactions with GPCRs.
Step 4: The structure points to potential interactions with dopamine, serotonin, and cholinergic receptors.
Step 5: Related genes include DRD2, HTR
