Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COc1ccc(C2CC(C(F)(F)F)n3nc(C(=O)[NH+](C)Cc4cn(C)nc4C)c(Cl)c3[NH2+]2)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide any other information.
Step 1: The molecule contains a tricyclic core structure with a benzene ring system, which is characteristic of certain types of ligands that can interact with receptors and enzymes involved in signal transduction pathways. This structural feature suggests potential interactions with genes encoding G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and enzymes involved in drug metabolism.
Step 2: The presence of a quinolone-like moiety in the molecule indicates possible interactions with enzymes such as CYP2D6, known for its role in the metabolism of many drugs and endogenous compounds. Additionally, the presence of a pyrrolidine ring and an amide group may suggest potential interactions with proteins like DRD2, which is associated with dopamine signaling and is encoded by the DRD2 gene.
Step 3: The molecule also includes a heterocyclic ring system containing fluorine atoms, which might indicate potential interactions with ion channels or transporters, such as those encoded by the KCNH2 gene, which encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel, or the SLC6A4 gene, which encodes a serotonin transporter.
Step 4: Given the presence of a benzothiazole ring and a carboxamide group, the molecule could potentially interact with enzymes involved in the metabolism of various substrates, including those encoded by CYP2C9 and CYP2C19.
Step 5: The overall structure of the molecule, with its complex functional groups and rings, suggests it may have multiple binding sites for different proteins, including receptors and enzymes. This complexity could lead to interactions with several of the listed genes, particularly those involved in neurotransmission and drug metabolism.
Summary of related genes: DRD2, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, KCNH2, SLC6A4. Step 1: The molecule contains a tricyclic core structure with a benzene ring system, which is characteristic of certain types of ligands that can interact with receptors and enzymes involved in signal transduction pathways. This structural feature suggests potential interactions with genes encoding G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and enzymes involved in drug metabolism.
Summary of related genes: DRD2, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, KCNH2, SLC6A4. Step 2: The presence of a quinolone-like moiety in the molecule indicates possible interactions with enzymes such as CYP2D6, known for its role in the metabolism of many drugs and endogenous compounds. Additionally, the presence of a pyrrolidine ring and an amide group may suggest potential interactions with proteins like DRD2, which is associated with dopamine signaling and is encoded by the DRD2 gene.
Summary of related genes: DRD2, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, KCNH2, SLC6A4. Step 3: The molecule also includes a heterocyclic ring system containing fluorine atoms, which might indicate potential interactions with ion channels or transporters, such as those encoded by the KCNH2 gene, which encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel, or the SLC6A4 gene, which enc
