Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COc1cccc(-c2cc(=O)c3ccccc3o2)c1N, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided SMILES string represents a molecule that includes a benzene ring system, which is common in many drug molecules. This structural feature is often associated with the binding sites of certain receptors and enzymes involved in signal transduction pathways. The presence of a benzene ring suggests potential interactions with proteins that have hydrophobic binding pockets.
Step 2: The molecule also contains a nitrile group (-CN) and an amide group (-CONH-), which are functional groups known to participate in hydrogen bonding and other types of interactions with amino acid residues in protein structures. These functional groups are particularly relevant for ligands targeting receptors and enzymes.
Step 3: Considering the functional groups and overall structure, the molecule may interact with proteins involved in neurotransmission and signal transduction. Specifically, it could potentially bind to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are known to be activated by various ligands including small molecules with similar functional groups.
Step 4: Among the listed genes, those encoding GPCRs are directly relevant due to their role in neurotransmission and signaling. These include HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6, all of which encode serotonin receptors, and CHRM1, CHRM3, and CHRM4, which encode muscarinic acetylcholine receptors.
Step 5: Additionally, the molecule might interact with enzymes involved in drug metabolism, such as those encoded by CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6, which are known to metabolize a wide range of drugs, including those with aromatic rings and amide functionalities.
Summary of related gene names: HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6.
