Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COc1ccc(S(=O)(=O)[NH+]2CCCC(C(=O)Nc3ccc(NC(=O)c4ccccn4)cc3)C2)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule has a complex structure containing a benzene ring, a sulfoxide group (S(=O)(=O)), a positively charged amine group ([NH+]), and a series of carbon chains. This structure suggests potential interactions with proteins that have binding sites for similar chemical moieties.
Step 2: The presence of the sulfoxide group (S(=O)(=O)) is particularly noteworthy as it can form hydrogen bonds and other types of non-covalent interactions with proteins. This feature might be relevant to genes involved in receptor binding or signaling pathways.
Step 3: The positively charged amine group ([NH+]) indicates that the molecule could interact with proteins containing ion channels or receptors that bind positively charged ligands. This characteristic points towards genes encoding such proteins.
Step 4: Given the pattern of the molecule, it likely interacts with proteins involved in neurotransmitter transport or receptor signaling, which are associated with several of the listed genes, such as HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6, which encode various subtypes of serotonin receptors.
Step 5: Additionally, the molecule's structure may also relate to genes involved in G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling, as it could potentially interact with receptors like DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4, which are dopamine receptors.
Summary of related gene names: HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4.
