Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COc1ccc(N(C(=O)Oc2c(C)cccc2C)c2cc[n-]c(=Nc3ccc(N4CC[NH+](C)CC4)cc3)n2)c(OC)c1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule is a complex organic compound with multiple functional groups including a nitrogen atom with an amide group (N(C(=O)O)), an aromatic ring system, and a nitro group (-N[C-]c). This structure suggests that the molecule could interact with proteins involved in neurotransmission, receptor binding, or metabolism.
Step 2: Analyzing the structure for potential interactions with receptors, we notice the presence of a chiral center and a benzene ring system which are common features in ligands that bind to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). GPCRs are involved in various physiological processes such as neurotransmission and hormone signaling. Notably, the molecule contains a quaternary ammonium salt (-N[C-]c), which is characteristic of agonists or antagonists for GPCRs.
Step 3: Considering the presence of a carboxylic acid group (-COO) and a nitro group (-NO2), the molecule might also interact with enzymes involved in metabolic pathways. CYP2D6 and CYP2C9 are known cytochrome P450 enzymes that metabolize many drugs, and their substrates often contain hydroxyl or carboxyl functionalities. Therefore, this molecule could be a substrate for these enzymes.
Step 4: Given the complexity of the molecule and its potential to modulate multiple biological pathways, it is likely to have effects on several genes involved in neurotransmission and receptor function. Specific examples include DRD2 (dopamine receptor D2), HTR2A (serotonin receptor 5-HT2A), and CHRM1 (cholinergic receptor muscarinic M1).
Step 5: Based on the structural analysis, the related genes to this molecule are: DRD2, HTR2A, and CHRM1.
Summary of related gene names:
- DRD2
- HTR2A
- CHRM1 Step 1: The molecule is a complex organic compound with multiple functional groups, indicating potential interactions with various biological targets.
Step 2: The presence of a quaternary ammonium salt suggests the molecule may act as a ligand for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 3: The carboxylic acid and nitro groups suggest potential interaction with metabolic enzymes like CYP2D6 and CYP2C9.
Step 4: Considering the molecule’s structure and functionality, it is likely to affect neurotransmission and receptor function.
Step 5: The related genes include DRD2, HTR2A, and CHRM1. 
- CHRM1
Note: Other genes listed in the prompt may not be directly related based on the provided structural information alone. However, further detailed analysis would be required to confirm their involvement. The summary focuses on the genes most likely to be affected by the molecule's structure.
