Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COc1cc2ncnc(Oc3cccc(NC(=O)N=c4cc(C(C)(C)C(F)(F)F)o[n-]4)c3)c2cc1OC, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide any other information.
Step 1: The molecule contains a tricyclic structure with an oxazoline ring and a phenolic hydroxyl group, which suggests potential interactions with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and enzymes involved in signal transduction pathways.
Step 2: The presence of a phenolic hydroxyl group and a quaternary amine could indicate potential binding to receptors like dopamine receptors (DRD2, DRD3, DRD4), which are known to have such functional groups for ligand binding.
Step 3: The oxazoline ring may also suggest a potential interaction with enzymes like CYP2D6, which can metabolize drugs containing this functional group.
Step 4: Given the presence of a quaternary amine and a phenolic hydroxyl group, the molecule might interact with serotonin receptors (HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6) as these receptors often bind to similar functional groups.
Step 5: The overall structure and functional groups of the molecule indicate a high likelihood of interaction with GPCRs and enzymes involved in neurotransmitter metabolism and signaling pathways, specifically those related to dopamine (DRD2, DRD3, DRD4) and serotonin (HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6).
Summary of related genes: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6 Step 1:
The molecule contains a tricyclic structure with an oxazoline ring and a phenolic hydroxyl group, which suggests potential interactions with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and enzymes involved in signal transduction pathways.
Step 2:
The presence of a phenolic hydroxyl group and a quaternary amine could indicate potential binding to receptors like dopamine receptors (DRD2, DRD3, DRD4), which are known to have such functional groups for ligand binding.
Step 3:
The oxazoline ring may also suggest a potential interaction with enzymes like CYP2D6, which can metabolize drugs containing this functional group.
Step 4:
Given the presence of a quaternary amine and a phenolic hydroxyl group, the molecule might interact with serotonin receptors (HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6) as these receptors often bind to similar functional groups.
Step 5:
The overall structure and functional groups of the molecule indicate a high likelihood of interaction with GPCRs and enzymes involved in neurotransmitter metabolism and signaling pathways, specifically those related to dopamine (DRD2, DRD3, DRD4) and serotonin (HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6).
The molecule has a complex tricyclic structure with an oxazoline ring and phenolic hydrox
