Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COc1cc(OC)cc(C(=O)Nc2cccnc2)c1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given SMILES string represents a complex organic molecule containing functional groups such as a carboxylic acid (-COOH), an alcohol (R-OH), a phenol (R-OH attached to a benzene ring), and a ketone (R-CO-R). This structure suggests the molecule could be involved in interactions with proteins that have binding sites for similar functional groups.
Step 2: Considering the molecular structure, it has a benzene ring system, which is common in many drugs and ligands that interact with receptors and enzymes. The presence of a carboxylic acid group indicates potential protonation and interaction with basic residues on proteins, while the phenolic hydroxyl group could form hydrogen bonds or act as a nucleophile in enzymatic reactions.
Step 3: The molecule's structure also includes a nitro group (NO2) and an amide (CONH2) group. Nitro groups are often found in drugs that modulate ion channels or receptors, while amides are common in peptide analogs and inhibitors of enzymes like CYP450s. This structural pattern points towards possible interactions with proteins involved in neurotransmission, ion transport, and metabolism.
Step 4: Given the diverse functional groups and the potential for multiple interactions, the molecule could be related to several genes encoding receptors, enzymes, and transporters. Notably, the nitro group and amide suggest interactions with enzymes like CYP2D6, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4, which metabolize many drugs. Additionally, the phenolic hydroxyl group might interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) like HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C, which are involved in serotonin signaling.
Step 5: Based on the detailed analysis, the molecule may be related to the following genes: CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP3A4, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C. These genes encode enzymes and receptors that could interact with the molecule's functional groups, potentially affecting its pharmacological profile. 
Summary of related genes: CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP3A4, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C.
