Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COc1ccc(-c2nnc(N3CCCCC3)c3ccccc23)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide an explanation for why this relationship is important.
Step 1: The molecule contains a tricyclic structure with a benzene ring fused to a pyrrole ring and a piperidine ring. This pattern is characteristic of certain ligands that interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). GPCRs are involved in various physiological processes and are targets for many drugs.
Step 2: The presence of a nitrogen atom in the piperidine ring suggests potential basicity, which could facilitate interactions with acidic residues in the transmembrane domains of GPCRs. This basicity is a common feature in molecules that bind to GPCRs.
Step 3: The molecule also includes a substituted phenyl ring, which can act as a hydrophobic anchor for binding to the transmembrane regions of GPCRs. This hydrophobic region is crucial for the binding affinity of ligands to their receptor targets.
Step 4: Considering the structural features and the potential for binding to GPCRs, the molecule may be related to genes encoding GPCRs such as DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4, which are dopamine receptors, and HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C, which are serotonin receptors.
Step 5: Based on the molecular structure and its potential to interact with GPCRs, the related genes include: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C. Step 1: The molecule contains a tricyclic structure with a benzene ring fused to a pyrrole ring and a piperidine ring. This pattern is characteristic of certain ligands that interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 2: The presence of a nitrogen atom in the piperidine ring suggests potential basicity, which could facilitate interactions with acidic residues in the transmembrane domains of GPCRs.
Step 3: The molecule also includes a substituted phenyl ring, which can act as a hydrophobic anchor for binding to the transmembrane regions of GPCRs.
Step 5: Based on the molecular structure and its potential to interact with GPCRs, the related genes include: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C. 
Summary of related gene names: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C.
