Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COc1cc(CNC(=O)CCCCCCC(C)C)ccc1[O-], and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule is a complex organic compound with a benzene ring (indicated by "c") attached to a chain of carbon atoms, which is characteristic of many drugs and natural products. It also contains a pyrrole ring ("p") and a nitrogen atom with a negative charge, suggesting it could be an anion or part of a salt. The presence of a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) and multiple aromatic rings indicates potential for hydrogen bonding and hydrophobic interactions, which are important for binding to proteins.
Step 2: The structure includes a benzene ring with a substituted phenolic hydroxyl group and a carbonyl group attached to it, which are common in molecules that interact with enzymes such as cytochrome P450 (CYP) family members. This is relevant to genes like CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6, which encode enzymes involved in drug metabolism.
Step 3: The molecule has a long alkyl chain and a quinoline-like structure, which are typical features of ligands that can bind to receptors such as G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). This suggests potential interaction with genes encoding GPCRs, including ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6.
Step 4: The presence of a benzene ring with a carboxamide group and a benzene ring with a phenolic hydroxyl group might indicate a potential for binding to ion channels, which are encoded by genes such as KCNH2 and SIGMAR1.
Step 5: Given the complex structure and the presence of multiple functional groups, the molecule could potentially interact with multiple targets, including those encoded by CYP2D6, CYP3A4, HTR2A, and SLC6A4. However, the most likely primary targets based on the structure are the CYP enzymes and the GPCRs.
Summary of related gene names: CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, KCNH2, SIGMAR1. Step 1: The molecule is a complex organic compound with a benzene ring (indicated by "c") attached to a chain of carbon atoms, which is characteristic of many drugs and natural products.
Step 2: The structure includes a benzene ring with a substituted phenolic hydroxyl group and a carbonyl group attached to it, which are common in molecules that interact with enzymes such as cytochrome P450 (CYP) family members.
Step 3: The molecule has a long alkyl chain and a quinoline-like structure, which are typical features of ligands that can bind to receptors such as G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 4: The presence of a benzene ring with a carboxamide group and a benzene ring with a phenolic hydroxyl group might indicate a potential for binding to ion channels, which are encoded by genes such as KCNH
