Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COc1ccc(CC[NH+](C)CCCC(C#N)(c2ccc(OC)c(OC)c2)C(C)C)cc1OC, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring system with a nitrogen atom bearing a positive charge, indicating it is an amine salt. This structural feature suggests potential interaction with proteins that have binding sites for positively charged molecules, such as receptors or transporters.
Step 2: The presence of a quinoline ring (quinoline is part of the larger structure within the molecule) and a pyridine ring might indicate activity towards enzymes involved in metabolism, like cytochrome P450 (CYP) family members, which are known to metabolize many drugs and xenobiotics.
Step 3: The molecule also includes a pyrrolidine ring and a morphinan ring system, which are common in opioid receptor ligands. This suggests possible interactions with genes encoding opioid receptors, such as OPRK1 (encoding for the κ-opioid receptor).
Step 4: Given the complexity and the presence of multiple functional groups, this molecule could interact with multiple targets, including neurotransmitter receptors and kinases. Genes such as HTR1A (serotonin 1A receptor), HTR2A (serotonin 2A receptor), DRD2 (dopamine D2 receptor), and LCK (Lck tyrosine kinase) could be relevant due to their roles in signal transduction pathways.
Step 5: Considering the broad range of pharmacological activities suggested by the molecular structure, the most likely related genes from the provided list include: OPRK1, HTR1A, HTR2A, DRD2, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and LCK.
Summary of related genes: OPRK1, HTR1A, HTR2A, DRD2, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, LCK. Step 1: The molecule contains a benzene ring system with a nitrogen atom bearing a positive charge, indicating it is an amine salt. This structural feature suggests potential interaction with proteins that have binding sites for positively charged molecules, such as receptors or transporters.
Step 2: The presence of a quinoline ring and a pyridine ring might indicate activity towards enzymes involved in metabolism, like cytochrome P450 (CYP) family members, which are known to metabolize many drugs and xenobiotics.
Step 5: Considering the broad range of pharmacological activities suggested by the molecular structure, the most likely related genes from the provided list include: OPRK1, HTR1A, HTR2A, DRD2, CYP2C19, CYP
