Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COc1cc(=NS(=O)(=O)c2ccc(N)cc2)[n-]c(OC)n1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule has a complex structure that includes a nitroso group (-NS(=O)) and an aromatic ring system. This structure suggests potential interactions with enzymes and receptors involved in neurotransmission and signal transduction.
Step 2: The presence of the nitroso group could indicate a role in modulating the activity of enzymes such as CYP2C19 and CYP2D6, which are known to metabolize drugs containing similar functional groups. These enzymes are involved in drug metabolism, which can affect the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of various medications.
Step 3: The aromatic ring system in the molecule may interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), such as DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, and HTR2B, which are known to be involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter signaling pathways. These receptors play crucial roles in various physiological processes, including mood regulation, pain perception, and cognitive functions.
Step 4: The molecule's structure also suggests possible interactions with ion channels, particularly those regulated by voltage changes, like KCNH2, which encodes for the hERG potassium channel. Such interactions could influence cardiac electrophysiology and potentially lead to arrhythmias.
Step 5: Given the complexity and specific functional groups of the molecule, it is most likely to have significant relationships with the genes encoding GPCRs and ion channels involved in neurotransmission and cardiac function, such as DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, and KCNH2.
Summary of related gene names:
- DRD2
- HTR1A
- HTR2A
- HTR2B
- KCNH2
These genes are directly related to the molecular structure described and are involved in neurotransmission and cardiac function. Step 1: The molecule contains a nitroso group (-NS(=O)), suggesting it might interact with enzymes involved in drug metabolism.
Step 2: The aromatic ring system in the molecule could interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are involved in neurotransmission.
Step 3: The presence of a nitrogen-containing heterocycle and a carboxylic acid group suggest potential interactions with ion channels, particularly those regulating potassium flow.
Step 4: The overall structure hints at possible modulation of receptor activity, which is relevant to genes encoding neurotransmitter receptors.
Step 5: Based on the identified structural features, the molecule is most likely to be related to genes encoding neurotransmitter receptors and ion channels, specifically DRD2, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, and KCNH2.
These genes are closely associated with the molecule's potential interactions and biological functions. Step 1: The molecule contains a nitroso group (-NS(=O)), which is often found in compounds that inhibit certain enzymes, such as CYP2C19 and CYP2D6.
Step 2: The aromatic ring system suggests potential interactions with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are involved in various cellular signaling pathways.
Step 3: The presence of a carboxylic acid group indicates possible interactions with ion channels, particularly those involved
