Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COc1ccccc1N1CC[NH+](Cc2cn3ccccc3n2)CC1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure with multiple rings, including a benzene ring, a pyridine ring, and a furan ring, which are common in many drug molecules. This complexity suggests the molecule may have multiple binding sites for different proteins or enzymes.
Step 2: The presence of a nitrogen atom in the molecule, specifically in a cyclic form (as in the imidazole group), indicates potential interactions with proteins that contain histidine residues, such as kinases. For example, the LCK gene encodes a tyrosine kinase that could interact with this part of the molecule.
Step 3: The molecule also contains a nitro group (-NO2) and an amide group (-CONH-). These functional groups can participate in hydrogen bonding and electrostatic interactions with amino acid residues in protein active sites, particularly those containing polar or charged residues. The CYP2D6 gene codes for a cytochrome P450 enzyme that metabolizes many drugs, including those with these functional groups.
Step 4: The molecule’s overall shape and size suggest it might fit into the binding pockets of large protein targets, such as G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). The HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C genes all code for serotonin receptors, which are known to bind various ligands and drugs.
Step 5: Given the presence of a quinoline-like structure and a pyridine ring, the molecule could potentially interact with enzymes involved in the metabolism of drugs, such as those coded by the CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 genes, which are part of the cytochrome P450 family.
Summary of Related Genes: CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, LCK, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure with multiple rings, including a benzene ring, a pyridine ring, and a furan ring, which are common in many drug molecules. This complexity suggests the molecule may have multiple binding sites for different proteins or enzymes.
Step 5: Given the presence of a quinoline-like structure and a pyridine ring, the molecule could potentially
