Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COCC[NH+](C(=O)Nc1ccc(OC)cc1OC)C1CC[NH+](C(C)=O)CC1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule contains multiple functional groups including amine (-NH2), carboxylic acid (-COOH), and ester (RCOOR') functionalities. These functional groups are common in many small molecules that interact with receptors and enzymes.
Step 2: The presence of a histidine group (NH+) and a carboxamide group (CONH) suggests potential interactions with proteins containing histidine or aspartate/glutamate residues, which are common in G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 3: The aromatic ring systems and hydrophobic chains indicate the molecule could be a ligand for membrane receptors, particularly those involved in signal transduction pathways.
Step 4: Given the pattern of functional groups and the overall structure, this molecule might interact with receptors like DRD2 (Dopamine receptor D2), HTR2A (Serotonin receptor 5-HT1A), and HRH1 (Histamine receptor H1), all of which have specific binding sites for ligands with similar characteristics.
Step 5: Based on the interaction patterns and the presence of specific functional groups, the related genes include DRD2, HTR2A, and HRH1.
Summary of related gene names:
- DRD2
- HTR2A
- HRH1
The molecule likely interacts with these genes through specific binding sites, modulating their functions in signal transduction pathways. Other genes may also be involved, but based on the provided information, DRD2, HTR2A, and HRH1 are the most directly related. 
Note: The original SMILES string was not directly used in the analysis due to its complexity and the need to identify key structural features. The analysis focuses on common functional groups and their typical interactions with biological targets. The provided genes are selected based on the known binding preferences of molecules with similar structures. Further experimental validation would be necessary to confirm these relationships. 
You can stop here after listing the related gene names. No further steps are needed as the task requires only identifying potentially related genes based on the given molecule's structure. 
- HRH1 Step 1: The molecule contains multiple functional groups such as amine (-NH2), carboxylic acid (-COOH), and ester (RCOOR'), indicating it could interact with various biological targets.
Step 2: The presence of a histidine group (NH+) and a carboxamide group (CONH) suggests potential interactions with proteins containing histidine or aspartate/glutamate residues, commonly found in G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 3: The aromatic ring systems and hydrophobic chains suggest the molecule could bind to membrane receptors, particularly those involved in signal transduction pathways.
Step 4: Based on the structure, the molecule might interact with receptors like DRD2 (Dopamine receptor D2), HTR2A (Serotonin receptor 5-HT1A), and HRH1 (Histamine receptor H1).
Step 5: The related genes include DRD2, HTR2A, and HRH1.
These genes are likely related because the molecule's structure suggests potential interactions with receptors
