Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COCCc1ccc(OCC(O)C[NH2+]C(C)C)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule contains a benzene ring with an oxygen atom attached, forming a phenol group, and is connected to a cyclohexane ring system. Additionally, it has an amine group (-NH2) and a positively charged nitrogen atom, indicating it might be a basic compound. This structural feature suggests the molecule could interact with receptors or enzymes that have specific binding sites for such groups.
Step 2: Considering the presence of a phenolic group and the overall structure, this molecule might interact with enzymes or receptors involved in neurotransmitter systems. For example, it could potentially bind to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are known to have affinity for phenolic compounds and basic amines.
Step 3: The positively charged nitrogen in the molecule, along with its potential to form hydrogen bonds due to the presence of the phenolic hydroxyl group, suggests it could interact with ion channels or transporters. Specifically, it may have interactions with receptors like adrenergic (ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2) and muscarinic cholinergic (CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4) receptors, which often have similar functional groups for ligand binding.
Step 4: Given the molecular structure and its likely interactions with receptors, it could also affect enzymes involved in drug metabolism. CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 are known to metabolize various drugs, including those with aromatic and amine functionalities. Therefore, the molecule might influence these enzymes' activities, affecting drug metabolism pathways.
Step 5: Summarizing the related gene names based on the above analysis, the following genes are likely to be related to the molecule: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, CYP2D6, CYP3A4. These genes encode proteins that could directly interact with the molecule or be indirectly affected by its presence in the body. 
Summary of related genes: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, CYP2D6, CYP3A4.
