Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: COCc1n[n-]c(=NC(=O)CC(c2ccccc2)c2ccccc2)s1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule contains a quinoline-like structure with a nitrogen atom that is part of a substituted heterocycle. This structure is commonly found in molecules that interact with neurotransmitter receptors, particularly those involved in the regulation of serotonin and other monoamines.
Step 2: The presence of a quinoline core and a nitrile group suggests that this molecule could be an inhibitor or modulator of enzymes or receptors. Notably, the nitrile group is characteristic of compounds that inhibit certain cytochrome P450 enzymes, such as CYP2D6, which is known for its role in metabolizing many drugs.
Step 3: Additionally, the presence of a carboxamide group (N-C(=O)-R) and a benzene ring with a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) indicates potential interactions with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), such as DRD2 (Dopamine receptor D2), which is a well-known target for antipsychotics and other psychiatric medications.
Step 4: Furthermore, the overall molecular structure, with its aromatic rings and polar functional groups, may allow for binding to ion channels, such as KCNH2 (Voltage-gated potassium channel subfamily H member 2), which are involved in neuronal excitability and have been implicated in various neurological conditions.
Step 5: Considering the described structural features and their potential interactions, the related genes include: CYP2D6, DRD2, KCNH2.
Summary of Related Genes:
- CYP2D6
- DRD2
- KCNH2 Step 1: The molecule has a quinoline-like structure with a nitrogen atom that forms part of a substituted heterocycle. This type of structure is often associated with compounds that interact with neurotransmitter receptors.
Step 2: The nitrile group in the molecule is indicative of potential inhibition of cytochrome P450 enzymes, particularly CYP2D6, which plays a key role in drug metabolism.
Step 3: The presence of a carboxamide and carboxylic acid group suggests possible interaction with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), such as DRD2, which is a dopamine receptor and a common target in psychiatric drugs.
Step 4: The overall structure, including aromatic rings and polar functional groups, may also enable binding to ion channels like KCNH2, which are involved in neuronal activity.
Step 5: Based on the structural features, the related genes are: CYP2D6, DRD2, and KCNH2. 
- KCNH2
