Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CS(=O)(=O)N(CC(=O)[NH+]1CCN(c2ccccc2)CC1)c1cc(C(F)(F)F)ccc1Cl, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide any other information.
Step 1: The molecule contains a core structure that includes a benzene ring attached to a carboxylic acid group and an amide group, which is characteristic of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). This structure is similar to those found in molecules that interact with certain receptors and enzymes.
Step 2: The presence of fluorine atoms in the molecule suggests it may have specific interactions with proteins or enzymes that contain binding sites for halogenated compounds. This could potentially influence the activity of enzymes like CYP2C19, which metabolizes various substrates including NSAIDs.
Step 3: The aromatic ring system and amide group might interact with transmembrane receptors, such as G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are associated with several genes listed here, including DRD2, HTR1A, and CHRM1. These interactions could modulate receptor function and signaling pathways.
Step 4: The presence of a quinolone-like structure in the molecule might suggest potential interactions with DNA topoisomerases, which are involved in cell cycle regulation and are targeted by certain anticancer drugs. This could be relevant to genes like CDK2 and PTGS1, which are involved in cell division and inflammation, respectively.
Step 5: The overall structure of the molecule does not directly suggest strong interactions with enzymes like CYP3A4, CYP2D6, or CYP1A2, which are primarily involved in phase I metabolism of xenobiotics and drugs. However, its structure could influence the activity of these enzymes indirectly through receptor modulation.
Summary of Related Genes: CYP2C19, DRD2, HTR1A, CHRM1, CDK2, PTGS1. Step 1: The molecule contains a core structure that includes a benzene ring attached to a carboxylic acid group and an amide group, which is characteristic of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). This structure is similar to those found in molecules that interact with certain receptors and enzymes.
Step 5: The overall structure of the molecule does not directly suggest strong interactions with enzymes like CYP3A4, CYP2D6, or CYP1A2, which are primarily involved in phase I metabolism of xenobiotics and drugs. However, its structure could influence the
