Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: CS(=O)(=O)CC[NH2+]Cc1ccc(-c2ccc3[n-]cnc(=Nc4ccc(OCc5cccc(F)c5)c(Cl)c4)c3c2)o1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule has a core structure that includes a benzene ring with a carboxylic acid group (COOH) attached to it, and a nitrile (-CN) group. This structure is reminiscent of acetylcholine receptor ligands, which are known to interact with various neurotransmitter receptors.
Step 2: Among the provided genes, several are involved in the regulation of neurotransmitters or their receptors. For example, CHRM1, CHRM3, and CHRM4 encode muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, which are activated by acetylcholine and are known to be affected by molecules with similar structures to the given compound.
Step 3: The presence of a carboxylic acid group and a nitrile group suggests that the molecule could potentially act as an agonist or antagonist for these receptors. Acetylcholine receptors are G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), and the interaction with the molecule could modulate their activity.
Step 4: Additionally, the molecule might interact with other GPCRs such as HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C, which are serotonin receptors, and KDR, which codes for a tyrosine kinase receptor involved in angiogenesis. However, the specific interactions would depend on the exact nature of the molecule's substituents and its ability to bind to these receptors.
Step 5: Given the structural similarity to acetylcholine and the potential for interaction with neurotransmitter receptors, the most likely related genes are those encoding acetylcholine receptors (CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4).
Summary of Related Genes: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4.
