Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: N=c1[n-]c(=N)[n-]c(=NC2CC2)[n-]1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule in question is a complex nitrogen-containing heterocyclic compound, featuring a tricyclic structure with a central pyrrole ring fused to two other rings. This type of molecular structure is often involved in interactions with receptors and enzymes due to its potential for binding to specific protein sites.
Step 2: Analyzing the pattern of the molecule, it includes multiple nitrogen atoms that could potentially form hydrogen bonds, which are crucial for interactions with proteins such as receptors and transporters. Additionally, the presence of aromatic rings suggests the molecule may have significant lipophilicity, allowing it to cross cell membranes and interact with intracellular targets.
Step 3: Considering the gene features, the molecule's structure aligns well with known pharmacological targets such as G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and enzymes involved in signal transduction pathways. This is particularly relevant for genes encoding for GPCRs like DRD2 (Dopamine receptor D2), DRD3 (Dopamine receptor D3), and DRD4 (Dopamine receptor D4), which are known to be involved in neurotransmission.
Step 4: Furthermore, the molecule's ability to interact with enzymes involved in drug metabolism, such as CYP2D6 (Cytochrome P450 2D6) and CYP3A4 (Cytochrome P450 3A4), is also plausible given its complex structure and potential for enzyme inhibition or induction. These enzymes play a critical role in the metabolism of many drugs and are therefore important targets for drug development and pharmacogenomics.
Step 5: Based on the analysis of the molecule's structure and its interaction potential with various proteins, the related genes include: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4. These genes encode proteins that are directly involved in neurotransmission and drug metabolism, making them key players in the biological effects of the described molecule. 
Summary of related genes: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, CYP2D6, CYP3A4.
