Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: NC(=O)c1ccccc1OCC1CC(c2ccccc2)=NO1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided SMILES string represents a molecule with a complex structure that includes a pyrrole ring, an amide group, and an ester group. The presence of a pyrrole ring and an amide group suggests this molecule could be a derivative of a heterocyclic amine, which often serves as ligands for various receptors or enzymes.
Step 2: The amide group and the ester group are characteristic functional groups that can form hydrogen bonds and ester hydrolysis reactions, respectively. These interactions are crucial for binding to protein targets such as receptors and enzymes.
Step 3: Considering the presence of a pyrrole ring and the potential for hydrogen bonding and ester hydrolysis, this molecule may interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and enzymes involved in drug metabolism. GPCRs are common targets for drugs due to their role in signal transduction pathways, while enzymes like CYPs (cytochrome P450) play key roles in the metabolism of xenobiotics and drugs.
Step 4: Among the listed genes, those encoding GPCRs and enzymes involved in drug metabolism would be the most relevant. Specifically, genes encoding GPCRs such as DRD2 (Dopamine receptor D2), HTR1A (Serotonin receptor 1A), and HRH1 (Histamine receptor H1) are likely targets due to the presence of the amide and ester groups. Additionally, CYP-related genes like CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6 might also have a significant interaction given their involvement in drug metabolism.
Step 5: Summary of related gene names:
- GPCRs: DRD2, HTR1A, HRH1
- Drug Metabolism Enzymes: CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6
These genes are most likely to be influenced by the molecule due to its chemical structure and potential biological activities.
