Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: NC(=O)c1cccc(-c2cc(=Nc3ccc(OC(F)(F)F)cc3)[n-]cn2)c1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided SMILES string represents a molecule that contains a pyrrole ring fused to an indole ring, along with a benzene ring substituted with a cyano group and a carboxamide group. This structural pattern suggests the molecule could be a small molecule inhibitor targeting enzymes or receptors involved in neurotransmission and signaling pathways.
Step 2: The presence of a carboxamide group (NC(=O)) is typical for molecules that interact with G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), which are known to have binding sites for ligands containing this functional group. This structural feature points towards potential interactions with GPCRs.
Step 3: The fused pyrrole-indole core structure is common in ligands for serotonin receptors (5-HT receptors). Serotonin receptors, such as HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6, are GPCRs that mediate the effects of serotonin, a neurotransmitter involved in mood regulation, appetite, sleep, and other functions.
Step 4: Given the structural similarity to known ligands for serotonin receptors and the presence of a carboxamide group, the molecule may interact with one or more of these receptors, potentially affecting their function.
Step 5: Based on the described structural features and the likely interaction with serotonin receptors, the related genes include: HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6.
Summary of Related Genes: HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6.
