Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: NS(=O)(=O)c1cc(C(=O)[O-])c(Cl)cc1Cl, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide any additional information.
Step 1: The molecule is a nitrosylated sulfonamide derivative with a pyridine ring and a carboxylic acid group. It has a chloride ion and a cyano-substituted benzene ring attached to its structure. This complex structure suggests potential interactions with various proteins and enzymes.
Step 2: The presence of a carboxylic acid group and a sulfonamide moiety indicates that the molecule could interact with transporters and receptors that recognize these functional groups. The cyano-substituted benzene ring and chloride ion suggest potential interactions with enzymes involved in drug metabolism.
Step 3: The nitrosylated sulfonamide part of the molecule may interact with enzymes like CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4, which are known to metabolize drugs containing similar functional groups. These enzymes play a crucial role in drug clearance and can affect drug efficacy and toxicity.
Step 4: The carboxylic acid group might interact with ion channels such as KCNH2, which encodes the hERG potassium channel, and other proteins involved in signal transduction pathways.
Step 5: Given the diverse chemical features of the molecule, it could also potentially interact with receptors like DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4, which are dopamine receptors, and HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C, which are serotonin receptors, due to their ability to bind small molecules.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP3A4, KCNH2, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C. Step 1: The molecule is a nitrosylated sulfonamide derivative with a pyridine ring and a carboxylic acid group. It has a chloride ion and a cyano-substituted benzene ring attached to its structure. This complex structure suggests potential interactions with various proteins and enzymes.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2C9, CYP
