Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: NS(=O)(=O)c1cc2c(cc1Cl)[NH2+]C(C(Cl)Cl)NS2(=O)=O, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule has a structure that includes a nitroso group (NS(=O)(=O)) and a quaternary ammonium group ([NH2+]). This indicates it is likely a positively charged compound, which can interact with cell membrane receptors and ion channels.
Step 2: The presence of a chlorine atom (Cl) and a benzene ring suggests this molecule could be a potential ligand for receptors that are activated or inhibited by aromatic compounds or halogenated molecules. This could include G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) such as adrenergic and muscarinic receptors.
Step 3: The molecule contains a sulfonamide (NS2(=O)=O), which is known to bind to enzymes like CYP2C19, an important member of the cytochrome P450 family involved in drug metabolism. This could indicate a potential interaction with this enzyme.
Step 4: Given the complexity and the presence of multiple functional groups, this molecule may also interact with enzymes involved in signal transduction pathways, such as kinases (e.g., LCK) or receptors (e.g., DRD2, HTR2A). The presence of a nitrogen-containing heterocycle (cyclic structure) can also suggest potential interactions with nuclear receptors like PPARG.
Step 5: Considering the detailed structure and functional groups, the molecule might have a broad impact on various signaling pathways and metabolic processes, potentially interacting with several genes listed, including but not limited to: CYP2C19, CYP2D6, DRD2, HTR2A, LCK, and PPARG.
Summary of related genes: CYP2C19, CYP2D6, DRD2, HTR2A, LCK, PPARG. Step 1: The molecule contains a nitroso group (NS(=O)(=O)), indicating it could interact with proteins that recognize or are modified by such groups, possibly affecting cellular signaling pathways.
Step 2: The presence of a quaternary ammonium group ([NH2+]) suggests the molecule may act as a ligand for positively charged sites on receptors or enzymes, which could involve GPCRs or ion channels.
Step 3: The molecule includes a benzene ring and chlorine atoms, which can be recognized by receptors that respond to aromatic compounds or halogens, such as adrenergic and muscarinic receptors.
Step 4: The sulfonamide group (NS2(=O)=O) points to potential interactions with enzymes like CYP2C19, which metabolizes many drugs and xenobiotics.
Step 5: The overall structure, with its diverse functional groups, hints at possible interactions with enzymes involved in signal transduction and receptors, including kinases (LCK) and GPCRs (DRD2, HTR2A).
Summary of related genes: CYP2C19, CYP2D6, DRD2, HTR2A, LCK.
