Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=[N+]([O-])c1ccc(N2CC[NH+](Cc3ccccc3)CC2)c(S(=O)(=O)[NH+]2CCOCC2)c1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule has a complex structure containing multiple functional groups such as an amide (N), an imine (N+), a carbonyl (O=), and a sulfoxide (S(=O)). These functional groups are often involved in binding to receptors or enzymes that have specific binding sites for certain chemical functionalities.
Step 2: Among the provided genes, those that are most likely to interact with this molecule are those encoding G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and enzymes. GPCRs typically bind to small molecules via their ligand-binding domains, which are rich in hydrophobic and aromatic residues. Enzymes, particularly those involved in metabolism or signaling pathways, may also interact with the molecule through catalytic sites or allosteric modulation.
Step 3: Considering the molecule's structure, it is most likely to interact with GPCRs due to its diverse functional groups. Notable GPCRs include DRD2 (dopamine receptor D2), DRD3 (dopamine receptor D3), and DRD4 (dopamine receptor D4). These receptors are known to bind various small molecules and modulate downstream signaling pathways.
Step 4: Additionally, the molecule might interact with CYP enzymes, such as CYP2D6, which are involved in drug metabolism and can be affected by structural analogs like the one described.
Step 5: Summarizing the related gene names, the molecule is most likely to be related to DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, CYP2D6.
Summary of related gene names: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, CYP2D6. The molecule is likely to interact with these genes due to its chemical structure and the presence of functional groups that can bind to receptor or enzyme binding sites. The primary interaction is expected to be with GPCRs, specifically dopamine receptors, and potentially with CYP enzymes involved in drug metabolism. Other genes listed do not have a direct structural or functional relationship with the given molecule based on the provided information.
