Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=C(CC(c1ccccc1)c1ccccc1)Nc1ccc2c(c1)OCCO2, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide an explanation for why this information might be useful.
Step 1: The molecule has a central benzene ring with multiple substituents, including a pyrrole ring, a phenyl ring, and several hydroxyl groups. These features suggest potential interactions with proteins involved in signaling pathways, particularly those that are activated by G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 2: The presence of a benzene ring and hydroxyl groups indicates possible binding to enzymes involved in drug metabolism, such as CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6. These enzymes are known to metabolize various drugs and modulate their efficacy and toxicity.
Step 3: The molecule contains a nitrogen atom, which could form hydrogen bonds with proteins that have charged residues, such as those found in ion channels (e.g., KCNH2) and receptors (e.g., HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C). This interaction could influence the activity of these proteins.
Step 4: The presence of a phenolic hydroxyl group and the overall structure suggest potential interactions with receptors that bind ligands with similar structures, such as adrenergic receptors (ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2) and opioid receptors (OPRK1). These receptors play crucial roles in neurotransmission and pain modulation.
Step 5: The molecule's structure also hints at possible interactions with kinases (e.g., CDK2, LCK), which are involved in cell cycle regulation and signal transduction pathways. Additionally, the molecule may interact with transcription factors (e.g., PPARG) and enzymes involved in prostaglandin synthesis (PTGS1), which are implicated in various physiological processes.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, KCNH2, ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, OPRK1, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, CDK2, LCK, PPARG, PTGS1. Step 1: The molecule has a central benzene ring with multiple substituents, including a pyrrole ring, a phenyl ring, and several hydroxyl groups. These features suggest potential interactions with proteins involved in signaling pathways, particularly those that are activated by G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Step 2: The presence of a benzene ring and hydroxyl groups indicates possible binding to enzymes involved in drug metabolism, such as CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP2D6.
Step 3: The molecule contains a nitrogen atom, which could form hydrogen bonds with proteins that have charged residues, such as those found in ion channels (e.g., KCNH2) and receptors (e.g., HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C).
Step 4: The presence of a phenolic hydroxyl group and the overall structure suggest potential interactions with receptors that bind ligands with similar structures, such as adrenergic receptors (ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2) and opioid receptors (OPRK1).
Step 5: The molecule's structure also hints
