Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=C(CCC[NH+]1CCC(O)(c2ccc(Cl)cc2)CC1)c1ccc(F)cc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided SMILES string represents a complex molecule that includes a benzene ring system with a carbonyl group (O=C), an amine group attached to a nitrogen atom (NH+), and multiple substituents such as alkyl chains, a fluorine atom, and a chlorine atom. This structure suggests potential interactions with proteins involved in signal transduction and neurotransmission.
Step 2: The presence of a benzene ring with a carbonyl group and a positively charged amine could indicate a ligand for receptors or enzymes involved in G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling pathways. GPCRs are known to be regulated by various molecules and are associated with several genes listed, including DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4, which encode dopamine receptors.
Step 3: The alkyl chains and substituents like fluorine and chlorine can affect the lipophilicity and binding affinity of the molecule, which might influence its interaction with membrane-bound proteins or enzymes. This could potentially relate to genes involved in neurotransmitter metabolism or receptor modulation, such as CYP2D6, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4, which are involved in drug metabolism.
Step 4: Given the positive charge on the amine group, the molecule may interact with negatively charged sites on proteins, which could be relevant to ion channels or other negatively charged protein surfaces. Genes like KCNH2, which encodes a voltage-gated potassium channel, might be influenced by this property.
Step 5: Considering the overall structure and the presence of substituents, the molecule could also interact with enzymes or receptors that are part of signaling cascades involving second messengers. Genes such as PTGS1 (encoding cyclooxygenase-1) and SIGMAR1 (encoding sigma-1 receptor) could be relevant due to their roles in inflammation and stress response pathways.
Summary of related gene names: DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP3A4, KCNH2, PTGS1, SIGMAR1. These genes are likely to have a functional relationship with the described molecule based on its chemical structure and potential interactions.
