Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=C([O-])c1cccnc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given SMILES string (O=C([O-])c1cccnc1) represents a molecule that is likely a derivative of pyrrole or a similar heterocyclic compound, featuring a negatively charged oxygen atom and a cyclic structure. This pattern suggests the molecule could be involved in interactions with proteins that have specific binding sites for such functional groups or structures.
Step 2: The cyclic nature and the presence of a negatively charged oxygen suggest potential interactions with ion channels or receptors that have acidic residues or specific binding pockets for negatively charged groups. For instance, the cyclic structure might interact with transmembrane proteins that have similar structural motifs.
Step 3: Given the presence of a negatively charged oxygen and a cyclic structure, the molecule may interact with genes encoding for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) such as adrenergic receptors (ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2), muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4), and serotonin receptors (HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6). These receptors often have specific binding sites for ligands with negative charges and cyclic structures.
Step 4: Additionally, the molecule might interact with voltage-gated potassium channels like KCNH2, which have specific binding sites for compounds that can modulate their activity through charge interactions.
Step 5: Summarizing the related gene names: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, KCNH2. 
These genes encode proteins that are likely to interact with the described molecular structure due to the specific chemical features of the molecule. The interactions would be based on complementary binding sites within the proteins that match the cyclic structure and the negatively charged oxygen of the molecule.
