Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=C([O-])Cc1cc(I)c(Oc2ccc([O-])c(I)c2)c(I)c1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided molecule has a complex structure with multiple functional groups including an amide group (O=C), an alcohol group (-OH), and a phosphate group (I). The presence of these functional groups suggests the molecule could be involved in binding to receptors or enzymes that recognize such chemical moieties.
Step 2: Considering the presence of the amide group (O=C), this part of the molecule might interact with proteins that contain amide-binding sites, such as kinases. For instance, CYP2D6, a member of the cytochrome P450 family, contains amide residues that could form hydrogen bonds with the amide group of the molecule.
Step 3: The alcohol group (-OH) in the molecule indicates potential interactions with proteins that have hydroxyl recognition sites, like some G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). Specifically, HTR2A (serotonin receptor 2A) and HTR2B (serotonin receptor 2B) are known to bind to molecules containing hydroxyl groups.
Step 4: The phosphate group (I) present in the molecule could indicate a possible interaction with ion channels or transporters that recognize charged or polar groups. For example, KCNH2 (hERG potassium channel) might interact with this part of the molecule due to its need for binding negatively charged ligands.
Step 5: Based on the identified functional groups, the molecule may be related to the following genes: CYP2D6, HTR2A, HTR2B, and KCNH2.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2D6, HTR2A, HTR2B, KCNH2. These genes are associated with drug metabolism (CYP2D6), neurotransmitter signaling (HTR2A, HTR2B), and ion channel function (KCNH2). The molecule’s structure suggests it could influence these processes through direct binding or allosteric modulation.
