Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=C([O-])c1cccc(N2CCCC2=O)c1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule provided is a complex organic compound with a structure that includes a carbonyl group (O=C), an aromatic ring system, and a negatively charged oxygen atom (-O). This structure suggests the molecule could be a drug or a metabolite involved in various biological processes.
Step 2: Analyzing the structure further, we see a benzene ring (c1cccc) attached to a nitrogen-containing heterocycle (N2CCCC2=O), indicating potential interactions with receptors or enzymes that recognize such functional groups. The presence of a benzene ring is common in many drugs and ligands due to its aromaticity and stability.
Step 3: Considering the potential biological targets, the molecule's structure may interact with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) or enzymes like cytochrome P450s (CYPs) given the presence of a benzene ring and the negatively charged oxygen atom, which are known to influence their activities. Additionally, the aromatic ring could also suggest interactions with ion channels or transporters.
Step 4: Among the listed genes, several are involved in neurotransmitter signaling and receptor function, including HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6, which are all serotonin receptors. The molecule's structure might allow it to bind to these receptors, modulating their activity.
Step 5: Other genes related to the molecule might include CYP2C19 and CYP2D6, which are involved in the metabolism of many drugs, suggesting the molecule could be a substrate for these enzymes. Additionally, SLC6A4, which encodes a serotonin transporter, might be influenced by the molecule.
Summary of related gene names: HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, SLC6A4. These genes are likely to have a direct or indirect relationship with the described molecule based on its structure and potential interactions.
