Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=C(Nc1cccc(N=c2[n-]ccc(=Nc3cccc(C(F)(F)F)c3)[n-]2)c1)C1CC1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule contains a nitrogen-containing heterocyclic ring system with a nitrile group (-CN), which is characteristic of certain ligands that can interact with receptors. This structural feature suggests potential interactions with genes encoding receptors that have affinity for such ligands.
Step 2: The presence of multiple aromatic rings (such as benzene rings) and fluorine atoms (-F) indicates the molecule may be involved in interactions with membrane-bound receptors or enzymes that are sensitive to hydrophobicity and specific functional groups. This pattern aligns with the characteristics of several G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and cytochrome P450 enzymes.
Step 3: Given the complex structure with multiple functional groups, including amide (-CONH2) and possibly some functional groups related to neurotransmitter binding sites, this molecule could potentially interact with neurotransmitter receptors or enzymes involved in signal transduction pathways. This is consistent with the presence of several genes encoding receptors and enzymes involved in neurotransmission and signal transduction.
Step 4: Notably, the molecule's structure may suggest interactions with receptors that are involved in pain modulation and stress responses, given its potential to bind to or modulate the activity of adrenergic and cholinergic receptors. This is supported by the presence of adrenergic receptor (ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2) and cholinergic receptor (CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4) genes.
Step 5: Furthermore, the molecule's structure might also indicate potential interactions with genes encoding enzymes involved in drug metabolism, such as CYP2C19 and CYP2D6, due to the presence of functional groups that could be metabolized by these enzymes.
Summary of related gene names: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, CYP2C19, CYP2D6.
