Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=C(Oc1cccc(-c2cnc3ccccc3n2)c1)c1ccco1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure with multiple rings and functional groups such as an oxygenated benzene ring (Phenol) and a pyrrole ring. The presence of these functional groups suggests that the molecule could interact with proteins that bind to aromatic or heterocyclic structures.
Step 2: The molecule contains a nitrile group (-CN) and a cyano group (-C#N), which are known to be involved in interactions with various enzymes and receptors. Specifically, these groups can participate in hydrogen bonding, electrostatic interactions, and pi-pi stacking, which are important for binding to proteins such as kinases, G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), and ion channels.
Step 3: Given the pattern of functional groups and the overall structure, the molecule might be related to GPCRs since it includes features that could interact with these receptors. GPCRs are known to have affinity for ligands with aromatic and heterocyclic moieties, and the presence of a nitrile or cyano group can also be a characteristic of their ligands.
Step 4: Considering the potential interaction with GPCRs, the related genes would likely include those encoding for different types of GPCRs. From the provided list, the following genes are directly related to GPCRs: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, and HTR6.
Step 5: Additionally, while not directly related to GPCRs, the molecule's structure might also interact with other genes listed, such as CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4, which are involved in drug metabolism and could potentially be affected by this molecule if it acts as a substrate or inhibitor of these enzymes.
Summary of related gene names: ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HTR6, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure with multiple rings and functional groups such as an oxygenated benzene ring (Phenol) and a pyrrole ring. The presence of these functional groups suggests that the molecule could interact with proteins that bind to aromatic or heterocyclic structures.
Step 2: The molecule contains a nitrile group (-CN) and a cyano group (-C#N), which are known to be involved in interactions with various enzymes and receptors. These groups can participate in hydrogen bonding, electrostatic interactions, and pi-pi stacking, which are important for binding to proteins such as kinases, G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), and ion channels.
Step 3: Given the pattern of functional groups and the overall structure, the molecule might be related to GPCRs because it includes features that could interact with these receptors. GPCRs are known to have affinity for ligands with aromatic and heterocyclic moieties, and the presence of a nitrile or cyano group can also be a characteristic of their ligands.
Step 4: Considering the potential interaction with GPCRs, the
