Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=C([O-])c1cc([O-])ccc1[O-], and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given molecule has a structure that includes an oxygen double-bonded to a carbon atom, which is then bonded to an oxygen negatively charged ion (O-). This structure is known as a carboxylate group (-COO-), which is common in many drugs and molecules that interact with receptors and enzymes. The presence of multiple negatively charged oxygens suggests the molecule could have significant electrostatic interactions.
Step 2: The molecule also contains aromatic rings (c1cc([O-])ccc1) and is bonded to other negatively charged oxygens, indicating it might be involved in hydrogen bonding or other types of intermolecular interactions with proteins that contain charged residues or hydrophobic pockets.
Step 3: Considering the pattern of the molecule and its potential for interacting with proteins, we can infer that it might target proteins that have binding sites for negatively charged groups or hydrophobic regions, such as certain G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) or enzymes.
Step 4: Given the interaction patterns, the molecule is likely to interact with GPCRs, which are often involved in signal transduction pathways. Specific genes encoding GPCRs include CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, DRD2, DRD3, and DRD4. These receptors play roles in neurotransmission and can be targeted by molecules with similar structures.
Step 5: Additionally, the molecule might interact with enzymes like CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, which are involved in the metabolism of various drugs and xenobiotics. Therefore, the related genes include CYP2D6 and CYP3A4.
Summary of related gene names: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, CYP2D6, CYP3A4.
