Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=C(CSc1nnc(-c2cccnc2)o1)Oc1ccccc1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not generate any other type of content.
Step 1: The molecule is a benzodiazepine derivative, characterized by a five-membered heterocyclic ring (oxazolone) fused to a six-membered aromatic ring. This structure is known to interact with GABAA receptors, particularly with subunits containing the γ2 subunit, which are involved in the modulation of inhibitory neurotransmission.
Step 2: The γ2 subunit is encoded by the GABRG2 gene, which is not directly listed among the provided genes. However, the benzodiazepine interaction with this receptor suggests a potential indirect relationship through the GABAA receptor family, which includes subunits encoded by other genes such as GABRA1, GABRA2, GABRB1, GABRB2, and GABRD.
Step 3: Among the listed genes, CHRM1, CHRM3, and CHRM4 encode muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, which are also G-protein coupled receptors that modulate various physiological processes but do not directly interact with benzodiazepines.
Step 4: CYP2C19 is a member of the cytochrome P450 family and is involved in the metabolism of various drugs, including some benzodiazepines. Therefore, while it does not directly relate to the receptor function, it plays a role in the pharmacokinetics of the molecule.
Step 5: Based on the molecular structure and its known interactions, the most relevant gene from the provided list is CYP2C19 due to its role in metabolizing benzodiazepines.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2C19, GABRA1, GABRA2, GABRB1, GABRB2, GABRD. Step 1: The molecule is a benzodiazepine derivative, characterized by a five-membered heterocyclic ring (oxazolone) fused to a six-membered aromatic ring. This structure is known to interact with GABAA receptors, particularly with subunits containing the γ2 subunit, which are involved in the modulation of inhibitory neurotransmission.
Step 5: Based on the molecular structure and its known interactions, the most relevant gene from the provided list is CYP2C19 due to its role in metabolizing benzodiazep
