Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=C([O-])c1nn(Cc2ccc(Cl)cc2Cl)c2ccccc12, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided SMILES string represents a molecule that contains a benzene ring system with multiple substituents including an oxygen atom double-bonded to carbon (a nitrile group), a negatively charged oxygen, chlorine atoms, and other functional groups. This complex structure suggests the molecule could be a drug-like compound, which often interacts with receptors or enzymes.
Step 2: Looking at the functional groups, the presence of a nitrile (-CN) and a carboxylate group (-COO-) are notable. These groups are commonly found in molecules that interact with enzymes such as CYP2D6, which metabolizes many drugs, and CYP3A4, another important enzyme involved in drug metabolism. Additionally, the presence of chlorine atoms might suggest the molecule has potential for binding to ion channels or receptors, possibly interacting with KCNH2, which encodes a potassium channel protein.
Step 3: The molecular structure also includes aromatic rings, which are common in ligands for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). Specifically, the pattern around the central benzene ring could be indicative of a potential interaction with adrenergic receptors like ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, or cholinergic receptors like CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4.
Step 4: Given the complexity of the molecule and its potential interactions with various biological targets, it is likely that this molecule could have effects on multiple genes and pathways. However, based on the described features, the most plausible related genes are those involved in drug metabolism (CYP2D6, CYP3A4) and those encoding receptors for neurotransmitters and hormones (ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4).
Step 5: Summarized related gene names: CYP2D6, CYP3A4, ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ADRB2, CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4. 
These genes are most likely to be directly influenced by the described molecule due to their involvement in receptor and enzyme functions relevant to the molecule's structure. Other genes listed may have indirect relationships or no direct connection based on the provided structural information. 
Note: The summary focuses on the most probable gene interactions given the molecule's structure, but a full evaluation would require detailed pharmacological studies.
