Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=c1[n-]c2cc(Cl)ccc2c([O-])c1-c1cccc(Oc2ccccc2)c1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide an explanation for why this relationship is important.
Step 1: The molecule contains a nitrile group (-N#C) and a carboxylic acid group (-COOH), which are characteristic functional groups often involved in interactions with receptors and enzymes. These functional groups suggest potential binding to proteins that have similar functional groups in their active sites or binding pockets.
Step 2: The presence of a phenolic hydroxyl group (-OH) and a halogen atom (Cl) indicates the molecule could interact with proteins that have tyrosine kinases or other enzymes containing these functional groups, such as CYP2C9 and CYP2C19, which are involved in drug metabolism and have hydrophobic binding sites.
Step 3: The cyclic structure with multiple double bonds suggests the molecule may have the ability to interact with ion channels or receptors that have similar structural motifs. For example, CACNA1H, a calcium channel protein, might be a potential interaction partner due to its voltage-gated channel structure.
Step 4: The presence of a benzene ring with substituents like methyl and chlorine atoms implies the molecule could interact with proteins that have aromatic binding sites, such as ABL1, a tyrosine kinase, which has a catalytic domain with a conserved tyrosine residue for substrate binding.
Step 5: The overall structure and functional groups of the molecule, particularly the nitrile and carboxylic acid groups, suggest it might interact with enzymes that have similar functional groups in their active sites, such as CYP2D6, which is involved in the metabolism of many drugs.
Summary of related gene names: CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CACNA1H, ABL1, ABCB1
Note: The gene ABCB1 was added based on the presence of a benzene ring and the possibility of drug transport, given the structure of the molecule. The gene CYP3A4 was not included as the molecule does not have the typical substrates for this enzyme based on the provided structure. The gene SLC6A2 was also considered but not included due to the absence of a typical transporter motif in the provided structure. The gene PTGS1 was excluded as the molecule lacks the NSAID-like structure that would typically interact with this gene. The gene ESR1 was excluded as the molecule does not have estrogenic or anti-estrogenic properties. The gene FLT1 was excluded as there is no evidence of VEGF receptor activity from the structure. The gene HRH1 was excluded as the molecule does not have histamine receptor binding properties. The gene LCK was excluded as the molecule lacks the necessary structure for T-cell receptor signaling. The gene MCL1 was excluded as the molecule does not have the typical anti-apoptotic structure. The gene OPRL1 was excluded as the molecule does not have opioid receptor binding properties. The gene PPARG was excluded as the molecule does not have the typical PPAR gamma ligand structure. The gene SIGMAR1 was excluded as the molecule does not have sigma receptor binding properties. The gene SLC6A4 was excluded as the molecule does not have the typical transporter motif. The gene KDR was excluded as the molecule does not have the necessary structure for VEGF receptor activity.
