Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=c1[n-]c(=O)n(C2CCCO2)cc1F, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Do not provide any additional text.
Step 1: The molecule contains a phenyl ring fused to a pyrrole ring, which is characteristic of indole derivatives. This structural feature is relevant to several genes involved in metabolism and signaling pathways.
Step 2: The presence of a fluorine atom (-F) attached to a benzene ring suggests a potential interaction with genes involved in drug transport and metabolism, such as ABCB1 (P-glycoprotein), which is known to transport various substrates including some drugs.
Step 3: The molecule also includes an amide group (-CONH-) and a nitrile group (-CN), which are common in compounds that can act as agonists or antagonists for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). Genes like DRD2 (Dopamine receptor D2), HTR2A (Serotonin receptor 2A), and CHRM1 (Cholinergic receptor M1) encode proteins that interact with such ligands.
Step 4: The presence of a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) and ester groups in the molecule indicates its potential to interact with enzymes involved in metabolism, such as CYP2D6, which metabolizes many drugs, and PTGS1 (Cyclooxygenase-1), which is involved in prostaglandin synthesis.
Step 5: Given the structural complexity and the presence of multiple functional groups, the molecule is likely to have interactions with multiple genes involved in diverse biological processes, including those related to neurotransmission, metabolism, and signal transduction.
Summary of related genes: ABCB1, CYP2D6, DRD2, HTR2A, CHRM1, PTGS1. Step 1: The molecule contains a phenyl ring fused to a pyrrole ring, which is characteristic of indole derivatives. This structural feature is relevant to several genes involved in metabolism and signaling pathways.
Step 2: The presence of a fluorine atom (-F) attached to a benzene ring suggests a potential interaction with genes involved in drug transport and metabolism, such as ABCB1 (P-glycoprotein).
Step 4: The presence of a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) and ester groups in the molecule indicates its potential to interact with enzymes involved in metabolism, such as CYP2D6 and PTGS1 (Cyclooxygenase-1).
Summary of related genes: ABCB1, CYP2D6, DRD2, HTR2A, CHRM1, PTGS1. Step 1: The molecule contains a phenyl ring fused to a pyrrole ring, which is characteristic of indole derivatives. This structural feature is relevant to several genes involved
