Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=C1CCc2ccc(OCCCC[NH+]3CCN(c4cccc(Cl)c4Cl)CC3)cc2N1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure containing multiple functional groups such as an amide (O=C), a benzene ring (c2ccc), and a phenolic hydroxyl group (O). These structural features suggest that it may interact with proteins involved in signal transduction, metabolism, or receptor binding.
Step 2: Notably, the presence of a phenolic hydroxyl group and the overall aromatic nature of the molecule could indicate potential interactions with enzymes involved in drug metabolism, such as those encoded by CYP (cytochrome P450) genes. This is supported by the presence of CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4 in the list of provided genes.
Step 3: Additionally, the molecule’s structure includes a nitrogen atom with a positive charge, which could suggest potential interactions with ion channels or receptors that have positively charged binding sites. Genes like KCNH2 (potassium channel, voltage-gated subfamily H member 2) and HRH1 (histamine H1 receptor) might be relevant here due to their involvement in ion channel function and histamine receptor activity, respectively.
Step 4: Furthermore, the molecule’s structure contains a quinoline-like moiety (NCCN) and a carboxamide group, which are common in ligands for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). GPCRs are often regulated by neurotransmitters and hormones, and several genes listed, including DRD2 (dopamine receptor D2), HTR1A (serotonin receptor 1A), and ESR1 (estrogen receptor alpha), encode proteins that interact with such ligands.
Step 5: Based on the structural analysis, the molecule appears to have the potential to interact with multiple biological processes mediated by the listed genes, particularly those involved in metabolism (CYP genes), ion channel function (KCNH2, HRH1), and neurotransmitter signaling (DRD2, HTR1A, ESR1).
Summary of Related Genes: CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, KCNH2, HRH1, DRD2, HTR1A, ESR1. Step 1: The molecule has a complex structure containing multiple functional groups such as an amide (O=C), a benzene ring (c2ccc), and a phenolic hydroxyl group (O). These structural features suggest that it may interact with proteins involved in signal transduction, metabolism, or receptor binding.
Step 2: The presence of a phenolic hydroxyl group and the overall aromatic nature of the molecule indicate potential interactions with enzymes involved in drug metabolism, specifically CYP (cytochrome P450) enzymes like CYP2C19, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4.
Step 3: The nitrogen atom with a positive charge suggests potential interactions with ion channels or receptors that have positively charged binding sites, such as KCNH2 (potassium channel) and HRH1 (histamine H1 receptor).
Step 4: The quinoline-like moiety (NCCN) and carboxamide group indicate the molecule could act as a ligand for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), which include DRD
