Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: O=C1CCC([NH+]2C(=O)c3ccccc3C2=O)C(=O)N1, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The provided SMILES string represents a molecule with a structure that includes an amide group, a benzene ring, and a quaternary ammonium group. This structure suggests the molecule is likely an acetylcholine receptor agonist or antagonist.
Step 2: The presence of a quaternary ammonium group indicates the molecule could act as an agonist or antagonist for cholinergic receptors, which are involved in neurotransmission. Specifically, this feature points towards potential interactions with muscarinic and adrenergic receptors.
Step 3: The molecule's structure also includes a benzene ring system, which is common in many ligands for G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). Given the cholinergic receptor involvement, it is plausible that the molecule could interact with receptors such as CHRM1, CHRM3, and CHRM4, which are members of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor family.
Step 4: Considering the pattern of the molecule and its likely interactions with cholinergic receptors, the related genes would be those encoding for these receptors. Therefore, the genes ADRA1D, ADRA2B, ABL1, and ADRB2 are not directly relevant to the molecule's structure or function based on the given information.
Step 5: Based on the above analysis, the related genes are CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, and potentially HTR2A, HTR2B, and HTR2C if the molecule also interacts with serotonin receptors, though the primary focus should be on the cholinergic system.
Summary of related gene names: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C.
