Given the following molecule represented by the SMILES string: OC(Cc1nc2ccccc2[n-]1)c1ccccc1Cl, and the following genes: ABCB1,ABL1,ADRA1D,ADRA2B,ADRB2,CA12,CA2,CA9,CACNA1H,CDK2,CHRM1,CHRM3,CHRM4,CNR1,CYP1A2,CYP2C19,CYP2C9,CYP2D6,CYP3A4,DRD2,DRD3,DRD4,EGFR,ESR1,FLT1,HRH1,HTR1A,HTR2A,HTR2B,HTR2C,HTR6,KCNH2,KDR,LCK,MCL1,OPRK1,PPARG,PTGS1,SIGMAR1,SLC6A2,SLC6A4, describe whether the molecule is related to one or a few of these genes in clear, simple and accurate English. Explain the relationship between the molecule and the related genes in detail. You can break down by explain the patterns of the molecule, followed by the gene features. Format the output as 'Step 1:', 'Step 2:', etc., with each step focusing on a specific aspect of the molecule's structure or properties. Finally, summarize the related gene names in a list. Limit the reasoning to at most 5 steps. You can stop after summarizing the related gene names. Step 1: The given SMILES string represents a molecule with a benzene ring system, containing a chlorine atom, a nitrile group, and several substituents including an amide and a pyrrole ring. This complex structure suggests that the molecule could be a drug-like compound or a bioactive molecule.
Step 2: The presence of a nitrile group (-CN) and a chlorine atom in the molecule indicates that it might have electrophilic and halogenation properties, which are often associated with certain types of drugs. These functional groups can interact with proteins through hydrogen bonding, electrostatic interactions, or covalent bonding.
Step 3: Considering the functional groups and structure of the molecule, it may potentially interact with receptors and enzymes involved in signal transduction pathways, such as G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), kinases, and cytochrome P450 enzymes. This interaction could affect the expression or activity of these genes.
Step 4: Among the listed genes, those involved in signal transduction pathways, receptor functions, and drug metabolism are more likely to be affected by this molecule. Specifically, GPCRs (e.g., CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HRH1) and kinases (e.g., LCK, KDR, CDK2) could be potential targets due to their roles in cellular signaling and response to external stimuli. Additionally, CYP2D6, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4, which are involved in the metabolism of many drugs, could also be influenced by this molecule.
Step 5: Based on the analysis of the molecule's structure and its potential interactions with various biological processes, the related genes include: CHRM1, CHRM3, CHRM4, HTR1A, HTR2A, HTR2B, HTR2C, HRH1, LCK, KDR, CDK2, CYP2D6, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4. These genes play crucial roles in neurotransmission, cell signaling, and drug metabolism, making them relevant to the potential effects of the described molecule. Step 1: The given SMILES string represents a molecule with a benzene ring system, containing a chlorine atom, a nitrile group, and several substituents including an amide and a pyrrole ring. This complex structure suggests that the molecule could be a drug-like compound or a bioactive molecule.
Step 4: Among the listed genes, those involved in signal transduction pathways, receptor functions, and drug metabolism are more likely to be affected by this molecule. Specifically, GPCRs
